ALS using MOUSE model

Returning 100 abstracts



1. J Biol Chem. 2015 Dec 14. pii: jbc.M115.685222. [Epub ahead of print]

The evolutionarily conserved Tre2/Bub2/Cdc16 (TBC), Lysin motif (LysM), Domain
catalytic (TLDc) domain is neuroprotective against oxidative stress.

Finelli MJ(1), Sanchez-Pulido L(1), Liu KX(1), Davies KE(1), Oliver PL(2).

Author information: 
(1)University of Oxford, United Kingdom. (2)University of Oxford, United Kingdom 
peter.oliver@dpag.ox.ac.uk.

Oxidative stress is a pathological feature of many neurological disorders,
therefore utilizing proteins that are protective against such cellular insults is
a potentially valuable therapeutic approach. Oxidation resistance 1 (OXR1) has
been shown previously to be critical for oxidative stress resistance in neuronal 
cells; deletion of this gene causes neurodegeneration in mice, yet conversely,
over-expression of OXR1 is protective in cellular and mouse models of amyotrophic
lateral sclerosis (ALS). However, the molecular mechanisms involved are unclear. 
OXR1 contains the Tre2/Bub2/Cdc16 (TBC), Lysin motif (LysM), Domain catalytic
(TLDC) domain, a motif present in a family of proteins including TBC1 domain
family member 24 (TBC1D24), a protein mutated in a range of disorders
characterized by seizures, hearing loss and neurodegeneration. The TLDc domain is
highly conserved across species, although the structure-function relationship is 
unknown. To understand the role of this domain in the stress response, we carried
out systematic analysis of all mammalian TLDc domain-containing proteins,
investigating their expression and neuroprotective properties in parallel. In
addition, we performed a detailed structural and functional study of this domain,
in which we identified key residues required for its activity. Finally, we
present a new mouse insertional mutant of Oxr1, confirming that specific
disruption of the TLDc domain in vivo is sufficient to cause neurodegeneration.
Our data demonstrate that the integrity of the TLDc domain is essential for
conferring neuroprotection, an important step in understanding the functional
significance of all TLDc domain-containing proteins in the cellular stress
response and disease.

Copyright © 2015, The American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.

PMID: 26668325  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1. Nagoya J Med Sci. 2015 Nov;77(4):537-549.

Neuroinflammation in motor neuron disease.

Komine O(1), Yamanaka K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience and Pathobiology, Research Institute of
Environmental Medicine, Nagoya University, Nagoya, Japan.

Increasing evidence suggests that the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases 
including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is not restricted to the neurons
but attributed to the abnormal interactions of neurons and surrounding glial and 
lymphoid cells. These findings led to the concept of non-cell autonomous
neurodegeneration. Neuroinflammation, which is mediated by activated glial cells 
and infiltrated lymphocytes and accompanied by the subsequent production of
proinflammatory cytokines and neurotoxic or neuroprotective molecules, is
characteristic to the pathology in ALS and is a key component for non-cell
autonomous neurodegeneration. This review covers the involvement of microglia and
astrocytes in the ALS mouse models and human ALS, and it also covers the
deregulated pathways in motor neurons, which are involved in initiating the
disease. Based on the cell-type specific pathomechanisms of motor neuron disease,
targeting of neuroinflammation could lead to future therapeutic strategies for
ALS and could be potentially applied to other neurodegenerative diseases.

PMID: 26663933  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1. Acta Neuropathol. 2015 Dec 9. [Epub ahead of print]

Prion-like propagation of mutant SOD1 misfolding and motor neuron disease spread 
along neuroanatomical pathways.

Ayers JI(1), Fromholt SE(2), O'Neal VM(2), Diamond JH(2), Borchelt DR(2,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Center for Translational Research in
Neurodegenerative Disease (CTRND), University of Florida, Box 100159,
Gainesville, FL, 32610, USA. jayers.123ja@ufl.edu. (2)Department of Neuroscience,
Center for Translational Research in Neurodegenerative Disease (CTRND),
University of Florida, Box 100159, Gainesville, FL, 32610, USA. (3)SantaFe
HealthCare Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, McKnight Brain Institute,
University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, 32610, USA.

A hallmark feature of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is that symptoms appear
to spread along neuroanatomical pathways to engulf the motor nervous system,
suggesting a propagative toxic entity could be involved in disease pathogenesis. 
Evidence for such a propagative entity emerged recently in studies using mice
that express G85R-SOD1 mutant protein fused to YFP (G85R-SOD1:YFP). Heterozygous 
G85R-SOD1:YFP transgenic mice do not develop ALS symptoms out to 20 months of
age. However, when newborns are injected with spinal homogenates from paralyzed
mutant SOD1 mice, the G85R-SOD1:YFP mice develop paralysis as early as 6 months
of age. We now demonstrate that injecting spinal homogenates from paralyzed
mutant SOD1 mice into the sciatic nerves of adult G85R-SOD1:YFP mice produces a
spreading motor neuron disease within 3.0 ± 0.2 months of injection. The
formation of G85R-SOD1:YFP inclusion pathology spreads slowly in this model
system; first appearing in the ipsilateral DRG, then lumbar spinal cord, before
spreading rostrally up to the cervical cord by the time mice develop paralysis.
Reactive astrogliosis mirrors the spread of inclusion pathology and motor neuron 
loss is most severe in lumbar cord. G85R-SOD1:YFP inclusion pathology quickly
spreads to discrete neurons in the brainstem and midbrain that are synaptically
connected to spinal neurons, suggesting a trans-synaptic propagation of misfolded
protein. Taken together, the data presented here describe the first animal model 
that recapitulates the spreading phenotype observed in patients with ALS, and
implicates the propagation of misfolded protein as a potential mechanism for the 
spreading of motor neuron disease.

PMID: 26650262  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1. Front Cell Neurosci. 2015 Dec 1;9:463. doi: 10.3389/fncel.2015.00463. eCollection
2015.

Muscle Expression of SOD1(G93A) Modulates microRNA and mRNA Transcription Pattern
Associated with the Myelination Process in the Spinal Cord of Transgenic Mice.

Dobrowolny G(1), Bernardini C(2), Martini M(1), Baranzini M(2), Barba M(2),
Musarò A(1).

Author information: 
(1)DAHFMO-Unit of Histology and Medical Embryology, Institute Pasteur-Cenci
Bolognetti, IIM, Sapienza University of Rome Rome, Italy ; Center for Life Nano
Science at Sapienza, Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia Rome, Italy. (2)Institute of
Anatomy and Cell Biology, Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore Rome, Italy.

A crucial system severely affected in several neuromuscular diseases is the loss 
of effective connection between muscle and nerve, leading to a pathological
non-communication between the two tissues. One of the best examples of impaired
interplay between muscle and nerve is Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis, a
neurodegenerative disease characterized by degeneration of motor neurons and
muscle atrophy. Increasing evidences suggest that damage to motor neurons is
enhanced by alterations in the neighboring non-neuronal cells and indicate that
altered skeletal muscle might be the source of signals that impinge motor neuron 
activity and survival. Here we investigated whether muscle selective expression
of SOD1(G93A) mutant gene modulates mRNAs and miRNAs expression at the level of
spinal cord of MLC/SOD1(G93A) mice. Using a Taqman array, the Affymetrix Mouse
Gene 2.0 ST approach and the MiRwalk 2.0 database, which provides information on 
miRNA and their predicted target genes, we revealed that muscle specific
expression of SOD1(G93A) modulates relevant molecules of the genetic and
epigenetic circuitry of myelin homeostasis in spinal cord of transgenic mice. Our
study provides insights into the pathophysiological interplay between muscle and 
nerve and supports the hypothesis that muscle is a source of signals that can
either positively or negatively affect the nervous system.

PMCID: PMC4664730
PMID: 26648847  [PubMed]


1. Front Cell Neurosci. 2015 Dec 1;9:462. doi: 10.3389/fncel.2015.00462. eCollection
2015.

Type I Vs. Type II Cytokine Levels as a Function of SOD1 G93A Mouse Amyotrophic
Lateral Sclerosis Disease Progression.

Jeyachandran A(1), Mertens B(1), McKissick EA(1), Mitchell CS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology and
Emory University Atlanta, GA, USA.

Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal motoneuron disease that is
characterized by the degradation of neurons throughout the central nervous
system. Inflammation have been cited a key contributor to ALS neurodegeneration, 
but the timeline of cytokine upregulation remains unresolved. The goal of this
study was to temporally examine the correlation between the varying levels of
pro-inflammatory type I cytokines (IL-1β, IL-1α, IL-12, TNF-α, and GFAP) and
anti-inflammatory type II cytokines (IL-4, IL-6, IL-10) throughout the
progression of ALS in the SOD1 G93A mouse model. Cytokine level data from high
copy SOD1 G93A transgenic mice was collected from 66 peer-reviewed studies. For
each corresponding experimental time point, the ratio of transgenic to wild type 
(TG/WT) cytokine was calculated. One-way ANOVA and t-tests with Bonferonni
correction were used to analyze the data. Meta-analysis was performed for four
discrete stages: early, pre-onset, post-onset, and end stage. A significant
increase in TG cytokine levels was found when compared to WT cytokine levels
across the entire SOD1 G93A lifespan for majority of the cytokines. The rates of 
change of the individual cytokines, and type I and type II were not significantly
different; however, the mean fold change of type I was expressed at significantly
higher levels than type II levels across all stages with the difference between
the means becoming more pronounced at the end stage. An overexpression of
cytokines occurred both before and after the onset of ALS symptoms. The trend
between pro-inflammatory type I and type II cytokine mean levels indicate a
progressive instability of the dynamic balance between pro- and anti-inflammatory
cytokines as anti-inflammatory cytokines fail to mediate the pronounced increase 
in pro-inflammatory cytokines. Very early immunoregulatory treatment is necessary
to successfully interrupt ALS-induced neuroinflammation.

PMCID: PMC4664727
PMID: 26648846  [PubMed]


1. Curr Drug Targets. 2015 Dec 9. [Epub ahead of print]

The double roles of the prostaglandin E2 EP2 receptor in intracerebral
hemorrhage.

Luo X, Zhu Q, Zhang J, Huang Q, Xie Z(1), Cheng Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, the Second Affiliated Hospital, Chongqing Medical 
University, 76th Linjiang Road, Yuzhong District Chongqing 400010 China.
zyxieneuro2013@yahoo.com.

Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH), a subtype of stroke, bring high morbidity and
mortality to human beings. Multiple studies indicate that neuroinflammation,
excitotoxicity, oxidative stress, cytotoxicity resulted from the degradation
products of blood clot play vital roles in ICH-induced secondary brain injury,
which contributes to deterioration of neurological outcome. Prostaglandin E2
(PGE2), a type of prostanoids commonly up-regulated in these progresses, is known
to modulate numerous cellular and molecular processes and involve in various
diseases, including ICH, cerebral ischemic, Alzheimer's disease (AD) and
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) etc. PGE2 activates its downstream effects
through the G-protein coupled EP receptors, which are classified into four
subtypes: EP1, EP2, EP3 and EP4. These receptors have diverse influences on
cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) and phosphoinositol turnover and different 
anatomical distributions in brain. We focus on the most studied EP2 receptor
subtype demonstrated abundantly in cerebral cortex, striatum, and hippocampus.
The EP2 receptor possesses both protective and deleterious effects, relying on
specific type of damage and the responding components. It has been reported that 
the PGE2 receptor agonists, for example butaprost, perform a protective effect on
ICH-induced brain damage, while some mice lacking EP2 receptor also exhibit less 
brain injury. This review mainly discusses the PGE2 biosynthesis, downstream
signaling pathway of EP2 receptor and mechanisms of the dual roles of the
PGE2-EP2 receptor in ICH-induced brain damage, targeting to provide a potential
effective therapeutic strategy.

PMID: 26648067  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1. Neurochem Res. 2015 Dec 8. [Epub ahead of print]

Neuroprotective Effect of Human Adipose Stem Cell-Derived Extract in Amyotrophic 
Lateral Sclerosis.

Jeon GS(1,)(2), Im W(1,)(2), Shim YM(1), Lee M(1), Kim MJ(1), Hong YH(3), Seong
SY(4), Kim M(5,)(6), Sung JJ(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul National
University College of Medicine, Seoul, South Korea. (2)Biomedical Research
Institute, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, South Korea. (3)Department 
of Neurology, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul Metropolitan
Government Boramae Medical Center, Seoul, South Korea. (4)Wide River Institute of
Immunology, Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Department of Biomedical
Sciences, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, South Korea.
(5)Department of Neurology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul National
University College of Medicine, Seoul, South Korea. kimmanho@snu.ac.kr.
(6)Protein Metabolism Medical Research Center, Seoul National University College 
of Medicine, Seoul, South Korea. kimmanho@snu.ac.kr. (7)Department of Neurology, 
Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul National University College of
Medicine, Seoul, South Korea. jjsaint@snu.ac.kr.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a devastating human neurodegenerative
disease. The precise pathogenic mechanisms of the disease remain uncertain, and
as of yet, there is no effective cure. Human adipose stem cells (hASC) can be
easily obtained during operative procedures. hASC have a clinically feasible
potential to treat neurodegenerative disorders, since cytosolic extract of hASC
contain a number of essential neurotrophic factors. In this study, we
investigated effects of hASC extract on the SOD1 G93A mouse model of ALS and in
vitro test. Administration of hASC extract improved motor function and prolonged 
the time until symptom onset, rotarod failure, and death in ALS mice. In the hASC
extracts group, choline acetyltransferase immunostaining in the ventral horn of
the lumbar spinal cord showed a large number of motor neurons, suggesting normal 
morphology. The neuroprotective effect of hASC extract in ALS mice was also
suggested by western blot analysis of spinal cord extract from ALS mice and in
vitro test. hASC extract treatment significantly increased expression of p-Akt,
p-CREB, and PGC-1α in SOD1 G93A mouse model and in vitro test. Our results
indicated that hASC extract reduced apoptotic cell death and recovered mutant
SOD1-induced mitochondrial dysfunction. Moreover, hASC extract reduced
mitochondrial membrane potential. In conclusion, we have demonstrated, for the
first time, that hASC extract exert a potential therapeutic action in the SOD1
G93A mouse model of ALS and in vitro test. These findings suggest that hASC hold 
promise as a novel therapeutic strategy for treating ALS.

PMID: 26646002  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1. Mol Neurodegener. 2015 Dec 8;10(1):66. doi: 10.1186/s13024-015-0062-3.

α-synuclein interacts with SOD1 and promotes its oligomerization.

Helferich AM(1), Ruf WP(1), Grozdanov V(1), Freischmidt A(1), Feiler MS(1),
Zondler L(1), Ludolph AC(1), McLean PJ(2), Weishaupt JH(1), Danzer KM(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Ulm University, Albert-Einstein-Allee 11, 89081, Ulm,
Germany. (2)Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, Florida, USA. (3)Department of Neurology, 
Ulm University, Albert-Einstein-Allee 11, 89081, Ulm, Germany.
karin.danzer@uni-ulm.de.

BACKGROUND: Parkinson's disease (PD) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) are 
both neurodegenerative diseases leading to impaired execution of movement.
α-Synuclein plays a central role in the pathogenesis of PD whereas Cu, Zn
superoxide dismutase (SOD1) is a key player in a subset of familial ALS cases.
Under pathological conditions both α-synuclein and SOD1 form oligomers and
fibrils. In this study we investigated the possible molecular interaction of
α-synuclein and SOD1 and its functional and pathological relevance.
RESULTS: Using a protein-fragment complementation approach and co-IP, we found
that α-synuclein and SOD1 physically interact in living cells, human erythrocytes
and mouse brain tissue. Additionally, our data show that disease related
mutations in α-synuclein (A30P, A53T) and SOD1 (G85R, G93A) modify the binding of
α-synuclein to SOD1. Notably, α-synuclein accelerates SOD1 oligomerization
independent of SOD1 activity.
CONCLUSION: This study provides evidence for a novel interaction of α-synuclein
and SOD1 that might be relevant for neurodegenerative diseases.

PMCID: PMC4672499
PMID: 26643113  [PubMed - in process]


1. Pharmacol Res. 2015 Nov 27. pii: S1043-6618(15)30004-9. doi:
10.1016/j.phrs.2015.11.020. [Epub ahead of print]

Synthetic and natural small molecule TLR4 antagonists inhibit motoneuron death in
cultures from ALS mouse model.

De Paola M(1), Sestito SE(2), Mariani A(3), Memo C(3), Fanelli R(3), Freschi
M(4), Bendotti C(4), Calabrese V(2), Peri F(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Environmental Health Sciences, IRCCS-Istituto di Ricerche
Farmacologiche "Mario Negri", Via La Masa, 19, Milano, Italy. Electronic address:
massimiliano.depaola@marionegri.it. (2)Department of Biotechnology and
Biosciences, University of Milano Bicocca, Piazza della Scienza, 2, 20126 Milano,
Italy. (3)Department of Environmental Health Sciences, IRCCS-Istituto di Ricerche
Farmacologiche "Mario Negri", Via La Masa, 19, Milano, Italy. (4)Department of
Neuroscience, IRCCS-Istituto di Ricerche Farmacologiche "Mario Negri", Via La
Masa, 19, Milano, Italy. (5)Department of Biotechnology and Biosciences,
University of Milano Bicocca, Piazza della Scienza, 2, 20126 Milano, Italy.
Electronic address: francesco.peri@unimib.it.

Increasing evidence indicates that inflammatory responses could play a critical
role in the pathogenesis of motor neuron injury in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 
(ALS). Recent findings have underlined the role of Toll-like receptors (TLRs) and
the involvement of both the innate and adaptive immune responses in ALS
pathogenesis. In particular, abnormal TLR4 signaling in pro-inflammatory
microglia cells has been related to motoneuron degeneration leading to ALS. In
this study the effect of small molecule TLR4 antagonists on in vitro ALS models
have been investigated. Two different types of synthetic glycolipids and the
phenol fraction extracted from commercial extra-virgin olive oil (EVOO) were
selected since they efficiently inhibit TLR4 stimulus in HEK cells by interacting
with the TLR4·MD-2 complex and CD14 co-receptor. Here, TLR4 antagonists
efficiently protected motoneurons from LPS-induced lethality in spinal cord
cultures, and inhibited the interleukine-1β production by LPS-stimulated
microglia. In motoneurons/glia cocultures obtained from wild type or SOD1 G93A
mice, motoneuron death induced by SOD1mut glia was counteracted by TLR4
antagonists. The release of nitric oxide by LPS treatment or SOD1mut glia was
also inhibited by EVOO, suggesting that the action of this natural extract could 
be mainly related to the modulation of this inflammatory mediator.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

PMID: 26640075  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1. Neuron. 2015 Dec 2;88(5):902-9. doi: 10.1016/j.neuron.2015.11.018.

Human C9ORF72 Hexanucleotide Expansion Reproduces RNA Foci and Dipeptide Repeat
Proteins but Not Neurodegeneration in BAC Transgenic Mice.

Peters OM(1), Cabrera GT(2), Tran H(1), Gendron TF(3), McKeon JE(1), Metterville 
J(1), Weiss A(1), Wightman N(1), Salameh J(1), Kim J(4), Sun H(5), Boylan KB(6), 
Dickson D(3), Kennedy Z(1), Lin Z(1), Zhang YJ(3), Daughrity L(3), Jung C(7), Gao
FB(1), Sapp PC(8), Horvitz HR(9), Bosco DA(1), Brown SP(4), de Jong P(7),
Petrucelli L(3), Mueller C(10), Brown RH Jr(11).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Massachusetts Medical School,
Worcester, MA 01655, USA. (2)Department of Neurology, University of Massachusetts
Medical School, Worcester, MA 01655, USA; Department of Pediatrics and Horae Gene
Therapy Center, University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, MA 01655, 
USA. (3)Department of Neuroscience, Mayo Clinic, 4500 San Pablo Road,
Jacksonville, FL 32224, USA. (4)Solomon H. Snyder Department of Neuroscience,
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.
(5)Department of Pediatrics and Horae Gene Therapy Center, University of
Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, MA 01655, USA. (6)Department of
Neurology, Mayo Clinic, 4500 San Pablo Road, Jacksonville, FL 32224, USA.
(7)Children's Hospital Oakland Research Institute, 5700 Martin Luther King Jr
Way, Oakland, CA 94609, USA. (8)Department of Neurology, University of
Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, MA 01655, USA; Department of Biology,
McGovern Institute for Brain Research, and Howard Hughes Medical Institute, 77
Massachusetts Avenue, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA 02139,
USA. (9)Department of Biology, McGovern Institute for Brain Research, and Howard 
Hughes Medical Institute, 77 Massachusetts Avenue, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA. (10)Department of Pediatrics and Horae Gene
Therapy Center, University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, MA 01655, 
USA. Electronic address: chris.mueller@umassmed.edu. (11)Department of Neurology,
University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, MA 01655, USA. Electronic 
address: robert.brown@umassmed.edu.

A non-coding hexanucleotide repeat expansion in the C9ORF72 gene is the most
common mutation associated with familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and 
frontotemporal dementia (FTD). To investigate the pathological role of C9ORF72 in
these diseases, we generated a line of mice carrying a bacterial artificial
chromosome containing exons 1 to 6 of the human C9ORF72 gene with approximately
500 repeats of the GGGGCC motif. The mice showed no overt behavioral phenotype
but recapitulated distinctive histopathological features of C9ORF72 ALS/FTD,
including sense and antisense intranuclear RNA foci and poly(glycine-proline)
dipeptide repeat proteins. Finally, using an artificial microRNA that targets
human C9ORF72 in cultures of primary cortical neurons from the C9BAC mice, we
have attenuated expression of the C9BAC transgene and the poly(GP) dipeptides.
The C9ORF72 BAC transgenic mice will be a valuable tool in the study of ALS/FTD
pathobiology and therapy.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 26637797  [PubMed - in process]


1. Neuron. 2015 Dec 2;88(5):892-901. doi: 10.1016/j.neuron.2015.10.027.

C9orf72 BAC Transgenic Mice Display Typical Pathologic Features of ALS/FTD.

O'Rourke JG(1), Bogdanik L(2), Muhammad AK(1), Gendron TF(3), Kim KJ(1), Austin
A(2), Cady J(4), Liu EY(5), Zarrow J(1), Grant S(1), Ho R(1), Bell S(1), Carmona 
S(1), Simpkinson M(1), Lall D(1), Wu K(1), Daughrity L(3), Dickson DW(3), Harms
MB(4), Petrucelli L(3), Lee EB(5), Lutz CM(2), Baloh RH(6).

Author information: 
(1)Board of Governors Regenerative Medicine Institute, Cedars-Sinai Medical
Center, 8700 Beverly Boulevard, Los Angeles, CA 90048, USA. (2)The Jackson
Laboratory, 600 Main Street, Bar Harbor, ME 04609, USA. (3)Department of
Neuroscience, Mayo Clinic, 4500 San Pablo Road, Jacksonville, FL 32224, USA.
(4)Department of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine, 660 South
Euclid Avenue, St. Louis, MO 63110, USA. (5)Department of Pathology and
Laboratory Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.
(6)Board of Governors Regenerative Medicine Institute, Cedars-Sinai Medical
Center, 8700 Beverly Boulevard, Los Angeles, CA 90048, USA; Department of
Neurology, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, 8700 Beverly Boulevard, Los Angeles, CA
90048, USA. Electronic address: robert.baloh@csmc.edu.

Noncoding expansions of a hexanucleotide repeat (GGGGCC) in the C9orf72 gene are 
the most common cause of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and
frontotemporal dementia. Here we report transgenic mice carrying a bacterial
artificial chromosome (BAC) containing the full human C9orf72 gene with either a 
normal allele (15 repeats) or disease-associated expansion (∼100-1,000 repeats;
C9-BACexp). C9-BACexp mice displayed pathologic features seen in C9orf72
expansion patients, including widespread RNA foci and repeat-associated non-ATG
(RAN) translated dipeptides, which were suppressed by antisense oligonucleotides 
targeting human C9orf72. Nucleolin distribution was altered, supporting that
either C9orf72 transcripts or RAN dipeptides promote nucleolar dysfunction.
Despite early and widespread production of RNA foci and RAN dipeptides in
C9-BACexp mice, behavioral abnormalities and neurodegeneration were not observed 
even at advanced ages, supporting the hypothesis that RNA foci and RAN dipeptides
occur presymptomatically and are not sufficient to drive neurodegeneration in
mice at levels seen in patients.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMCID: PMC4672384 [Available on 2016-12-02]
PMID: 26637796  [PubMed - in process]


1. Skelet Muscle. 2015 Dec 1;5:44. doi: 10.1186/s13395-015-0070-6. eCollection 2015.

Elusive sources of variability of dystrophin rescue by exon skipping.

Vila MC(1), Klimek MB(2), Novak JS(2), Rayavarapu S(2), Uaesoontrachoon K(2),
Boehler JF(1), Fiorillo AA(2), Hogarth MW(2), Zhang A(2), Shaughnessy C(2),
Gordish-Dressman H(1), Burki U(3), Straub V(3), Lu QL(4), Partridge TA(1), Brown 
KJ(1), Hathout Y(1), van den Anker J(5), Hoffman EP(1), Nagaraju K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Research Center for Genetic Medicine, Children's National Health System, 111
Michigan Avenue N.W., Washington, DC, 20010 USA ; Institute of Biomedical
Sciences, The George Washington University, Washington, DC, USA. (2)Research
Center for Genetic Medicine, Children's National Health System, 111 Michigan
Avenue N.W., Washington, DC, 20010 USA. (3)The John Walton Muscular Dystrophy
Research Centre, MRC Centre for Neuromuscular Diseases at Newcastle, Institute of
Genetic Medicine, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(4)McColl-Lockwood Laboratory for Muscular Dystrophy Research, Neuromuscular/ALS 
Center, Department of Neurology, Carolinas Medical Center, Charlotte, NC USA.
(5)Research Center for Genetic Medicine, Children's National Health System, 111
Michigan Avenue N.W., Washington, DC, 20010 USA ; Center for Translational
Science, Children's National Health System, Washington, DC, USA.

BACKGROUND: Systemic delivery of anti-sense oligonucleotides to Duchenne muscular
dystrophy (DMD) patients to induce de novo dystrophin protein expression in
muscle (exon skipping) is a promising therapy. Treatment with Phosphorodiamidate 
morpholino oligomers (PMO) lead to shorter de novo dystrophin protein in both
animal models and DMD boys who otherwise lack dystrophin; however, restoration of
dystrophin has been observed to be highly variable. Understanding the factors
causing highly variable induction of dystrophin expression in pre-clinical models
would likely lead to more effective means of exon skipping in both pre-clinical
studies and human clinical trials.
METHODS: In the present study, we investigated possible factors that might lead
to the variable success of exon skipping using morpholino drugs in the mdx mouse 
model. We tested whether specific muscle groups or fiber types showed better
success than others and also correlated residual PMO concentration in muscle with
the amount of de novo dystrophin protein 1 month after a single high-dose
morpholino injection (800 mg/kg). We compared the results from six muscle groups 
using three different methods of dystrophin quantification: immunostaining,
immunoblotting, and mass spectrometry assays.
RESULTS: The triceps muscle showed the greatest degree of rescue (average 38±28 %
by immunostaining). All three dystrophin detection methods were generally
concordant for all muscles. We show that dystrophin rescue occurs in a sporadic
patchy pattern with high geographic variability across muscle sections. We did
not find a correlation between residual morpholino drug in muscle tissue and the 
degree of dystrophin expression.
CONCLUSIONS: While we found some evidence of muscle group enhancement and
successful rescue, our data also suggest that other yet-undefined factors may
underlie the observed variability in the success of exon skipping. Our study
highlights the challenges associated with quantifying dystrophin in clinical
trials where a single small muscle biopsy is taken from a DMD patient.

PMCID: PMC4667482
PMID: 26634117  [PubMed]


1. Virulence. 2015 Dec 2:0. [Epub ahead of print]

Targeted gene disruption in Candida parapsilosis demonstrates a role for
CPAR2_404800 in adhesion to a biotic surface and in a murine model of ascending
urinary tract infection.

Bertini A(1), Zoppo M(1), Lombardi L(1), Rizzato C(1), De Carolis E(2), Vella
A(2), Torelli R(2), Sanguinetti M(2), Tavanti A(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Biology , Genetic Unit, University of Pisa , Pisa , Italy.
(2)b Institute of Microbiology, Catholic University of the Sacred Heart , Rome , 
Italy.

Candida parapsilosis is an emerging opportunistic pathogen, second in frequency
only to C. albicans and commonly associated with both mucosal and systemic
infections. Adhesion to biotic surfaces is a key step for the development of
mycoses. The C. parapsilosis genome encodes five predicted agglutinin-like
sequence proteins and their precise role in the adhesion process still remains to
be elucidated. In this study, we focused on the putative adhesin Cpar2_404800, in
view of its high homology to the most important adhesion molecule in C. albicans.
Two independent lineages of C. parapsilosis CPAR2_404800 heterozygous and null
mutants were obtained by site-specific deletion. CPAR2_404800 mutants did not
differ from wild-type strain in terms of in vitro growth or in their ability to
undergo morphogenesis. However, when compared for adhesion to a biotic surface,
CPAR2_404800 null mutants exhibited a marked reduction in their adhesion to
buccal epithelial cells (>60% reduction of adhesion index). Reintroduction of one
copy of CPAR2_404800 gene in the null background restored wild type phenotype. A 
murine model of urinary tract infection was used to elucidate the in vivo
contribution of CPAR2_404800. A 0.5 and 1 log10 reduction in colony forming unit 
numbers (per gram) was observed respectively in bladder and kidneys obtained from
mice infected with null mutant compared to wild-type infected ones. Taken
together, these findings provide the first evidence for a direct role of
CPAR2_404800 in C. parapsilosis adhesion to host surfaces and demonstrate its
contribution to the pathogenesis of murine urinary candidiasis.

PMID: 26632333  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1. Biol Pharm Bull. 2015;38(12):1964-8. doi: 10.1248/bpb.b15-00418.

Characterization of Motor Neuron Prostaglandin E2 EP3 Receptor Isoform in a Mouse
Model of Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis.

Kosuge Y(1), Miyagishi H, Shinomiya T, Nishiyama K, Suzuki S, Osada N, Ishige K, 
Okubo M, Kawaguchi M, Ito Y.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Pharmacology, School of Pharmacy, Nihon University.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a motor neuron disease with adult onset,
characterized by progressive loss of motor neurons. Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), a
lipid mediator, exerts its biological functions by binding to four subtypes of
E-prostanoid (EP1-4). Among them, EP3 has been shown to have multiple isoforms,
EP3α, EP3β, and EP3γ, produced by alternative splicing. Since PGE2 has been shown
to have important pathophysiological roles in ALS, experiments were performed to 
identify EP3 receptor isoform(s) in spinal motor neurons of wild-type (WT) and
ALS model (G93A) mice. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR)
analysis of adult mice demonstrated expression of EP3α and EP3γ mRNAs in the
lumbar spinal cord, whereas EP3β mRNA was barely detectable. Laser capture
microdissection was used to dissect out motor neurons from frozen samples of
lumbar spinal cord in these mice for analysis by real-time PCR. We found that
expression of EP3γ mRNA was predominant in these neurons, whereas EP3α and EP3β
mRNAs were undetectable. At the early symptomatic stage, the mRNA expression
profiles of these splice isoforms in G93A motor neurons were comparable to those 
in neurons from WT mice. These results suggest that the PGE2-to-EP3 signaling
pathway is mediated mainly by the EP3γ isoform in the motor neurons of mice, and 
that modulation of the EP3γ isoform in motor neurons may be a promising new
therapeutic approach for ALS.

PMID: 26632188  [PubMed - in process]


1. Acta Neuropathol. 2015 Nov 30. [Epub ahead of print]

Aberrant association of misfolded SOD1 with Na(+)/K(+)ATPase-α3 impairs its
activity and contributes to motor neuron vulnerability in ALS.

Ruegsegger C(1,)(2), Maharjan N(1,)(2), Goswami A(3), de L'Etang AF(1,)(2,)(4),
Weis J(3), Troost D(5), Heller M(6), Gut H(7), Saxena S(8).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Cell Biology, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland. (2)Graduate 
School for Cellular and Biomedical Sciences, University of Bern, Bern,
Switzerland. (3)Institute of Neuropathology, Rheinisch-Westfälische Technische
Hochschule, Aachen University Hospital, Aachen, Germany. (4)Department of
Neuroscience, Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco, California, USA. (5)Division 
of Neuropathology, Department of Pathology, Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam,
The Netherlands. (6)Department of Clinical Research, Inselspital, University of
Bern, Bern, Switzerland. (7)Friedrich Miescher Institute for Biomedical Research,
Basel, Switzerland. (8)Institute of Cell Biology, University of Bern, Bern,
Switzerland. smita.saxena@izb.unibe.ch.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is an adult onset progressive motor neuron
disease with no cure. Transgenic mice overexpressing familial ALS associated
human mutant SOD1 are a commonly used model for examining disease mechanisms.
Presently, it is well accepted that alterations in motor neuron excitability and 
spinal circuits are pathological hallmarks of ALS, but the underlying molecular
mechanisms remain unresolved. Here, we sought to understand whether the
expression of mutant SOD1 protein could contribute to altering processes
governing motor neuron excitability. We used the conformation specific antibody
B8H10 which recognizes a misfolded state of SOD1 (misfSOD1) to longitudinally
identify its interactome during early disease stage in SOD1G93A mice. This
strategy identified a direct isozyme-specific association of misfSOD1 with
Na(+)/K(+)ATPase-α3 leading to the premature impairment of its ATPase activity.
Pharmacological inhibition of Na(+)/K(+)ATPase-α3 altered glutamate receptor 2
expression, modified cholinergic inputs and accelerated disease pathology. After 
mapping the site of direct association of misfSOD1 with Na(+)/K(+)ATPase-α3 onto 
a 10 amino acid stretch that is unique to Na(+)/K(+)ATPase-α3 but not found in
the closely related Na(+)/K(+)ATPase-α1 isozyme, we generated a misfSOD1 binding 
deficient, but fully functional Na(+)/K(+)ATPase-α3 pump. Adeno associated virus 
(AAV)-mediated expression of this chimeric Na(+)/K(+)ATPase-α3 restored
Na(+)/K(+)ATPase-α3 activity in the spinal cord, delayed pathological alterations
and prolonged survival of SOD1G93A mice. Additionally, altered
Na(+)/K(+)ATPase-α3 expression was observed in the spinal cord of individuals
with sporadic and familial ALS. A fraction of sporadic ALS cases also presented
B8H10 positive misfSOD1 immunoreactivity, suggesting that similar mechanism might
contribute to the pathology.

PMID: 26619836  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1. Neurobiol Dis. 2015 Nov 28;86:16-28. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2015.11.017. [Epub ahead 
of print]

Mahogunin ring finger 1 confers cytoprotection against mutant SOD1 aggresomes and
is defective in an ALS mouse model.

Chhangani D(1), Endo F(2), Amanullah A(1), Upadhyay A(1), Watanabe S(2), Mishra
R(1), Yamanaka K(3), Mishra A(4).

Author information: 
(1)Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology Unit, Indian Institute of Technology
Jodhpur, Rajasthan 342011, India. (2)Department of Neuroscience and Pathobiology 
Research Institute of Environmental Medicine, Nagoya University, Furo-cho,
Chikusa-ku, Nagoya 464-8601, Japan. (3)Department of Neuroscience and
Pathobiology Research Institute of Environmental Medicine, Nagoya University,
Furo-cho, Chikusa-ku, Nagoya 464-8601, Japan. Electronic address:
kojiyama@riem.nagoya-u.ac.jp. (4)Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology Unit, Indian
Institute of Technology Jodhpur, Rajasthan 342011, India. Electronic address:
amit@iitj.ac.in.

Proteotoxicity of misfolded, disease-causing proteins is deeply implicated in the
pathomechanisms for neurodegenerative diseases including copper-zinc superoxide
dismutase (SOD1)-linked amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). However, the precise
cellular quality control (QC) mechanisms against aggregation of misfolded mutant 
SOD1 proteins remain elusive. Here, we found that the Mahogunin ring finger-1
(MGRN1) E3 ubiquitin ligase, which catalyzes mono-ubiquitination to the
substrate, was dysregulated in the cellular and mouse models of ALS and that it
preferentially interacted with various mutant forms of SOD1. Intriguingly, the
motor neurons of presymptomatic ALS mice have diminished MGRN1 cytoplasmic
distribution. MGRN1 was partially recruited to mutant SOD1 inclusions where they 
were positive for p62 and Lamp2. Moreover, overexpression of MGRN1 reduced mutant
SOD1 aggregation and alleviated its proteotoxic effects on cells. Taken together,
our findings suggest that MGRN1 contributes to the clearance of toxic mutant SOD1
inclusions likely through autophagic pathway, and, most likely, the sequestration
of MGRN1 sensitizes motor neurons to degeneration in the ALS mouse model.
Furthermore, the present study identifies the MGRN1-mediated protein QC mechanism
as a novel therapeutic target in neurodegenerative diseases.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 26607786  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1. Hum Mol Genet. 2015 Nov 24. pii: ddv467. [Epub ahead of print]

The ASK1-specific inhibitors K811 and K812 prolong survival in a mouse model of
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.

Fujisawa T(1), Takahashi M(2), Tsukamoto Y(1), Yamaguchi N(1), Nakoji M(3), Endo 
M(4), Kodaira H(5), Hayashi Y(1), Nishitoh H(6), Naguro I(1), Homma K(1), Ichijo 
H(7).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Cell Signaling, Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences,
Strategic Approach to Drug Discovery and Development in Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Global Center of Excellence Program, and Core Research for Evolutional Science
and Technology, Japan Science and Technology Corporation, The University of
Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-0033, Japan. (2)Tokyo Research Park, R&D
Division, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd. 3-6-6, Asahi-machi, Machida-shi, Tokyo,
194-8533, Japan. (3)Legal and Intellectual Property Department, Kyowa Hakko Kirin
Co., Ltd. Ohtemachi Building, 1-6-1 Ohtemachi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8185, Japan.
(4)Bio Process Research and Development Laboratories, Production Division, Kyowa 
Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd. 100-1 Hagiwara-machi, Takasaki-shi, Gunma 370-0013, Japan. 
(5)Translational Research Unit, R&D Division, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd. 1188,
Shimotogari, Nagaizumi-cho, Sunto-gun, Shizuoka, 411-8731, Japan. (6)Section of
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Department of Medical Sciences, Miyazaki
Medical College, University of Miyazaki, 5200 Kihara, Kiyotake, Miyazaki,
889-1692, Japan. (7)Laboratory of Cell Signaling, Graduate School of
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Strategic Approach to Drug Discovery and Development in 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Global Center of Excellence Program, and Core Research
for Evolutional Science and Technology, Japan Science and Technology Corporation,
The University of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-0033, Japan
ichijo@mol.f.u-tokyo.ac.jp.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease with no 
cure. To develop effective treatments for this devastating disease, an
appropriate strategy for targeting the molecule responsible for the pathogenesis 
of ALS is needed. We previously reported that mutant SOD1 protein causes motor
neuron death through activation of ASK1, a mitogen-activated protein kinase
kinase kinase. Additionally, we recently developed K811 and K812, which are
selective inhibitors for ASK1. Here, we report the effect of K811 and K812 in a
mouse model of ALS (SOD1(G93A) transgenic mice). Oral administration of K811 or
K812 significantly extended the life span of SOD1(G93A) transgenic mice (1.06%
and 1.08% improvement in survival). Moreover, ASK1 activation observed in the
lumbar spinal cord of mice at the disease progression stage was markedly
decreased in the K811- and K812-treated groups. In parallel, immunohistochemical 
analysis revealed that K811 and K812 treatment inhibited glial activation in the 
lumbar spinal cord of SOD1(G93A) transgenic mice. These results reinforce the
importance of ASK1 as a therapeutic target for ALS treatment.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For
Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

PMID: 26604152  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1. Hum Mol Genet. 2015 Nov 24. pii: ddv477. [Epub ahead of print]

Preferential PPAR-alpha activation reduces neuroinflammation, and blocks
neurodegeneration in vivo.

Esmaeili MA(1), Yadav S(1), Gupta RK(2), Waggoner GR(1), DeLoach A(1), Calingasan
NY(3), Beal MF(3), Kiaei M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Developmental Sciences, Center for
Translational Neuroscience. (2)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, College
of Medicine, University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, Little Rock, AR,
USA-72205. (3)Feil Family Brain and Mind Research Institute, Weill Medical
College of Cornell University, New York, NY, 10065.

Neuroinflammation, immune reactivity, and mitochondrial abnormalities are
considered as causes and/or contributors to neuronal degeneration. Peroxisome
proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) regulate both inflammatory and multiple 
other pathways that are implicated in neurodegeneration. In the present study, we
investigated the efficacy of fenofibrate (Tricor), a pan-PPAR agonist which
activates PPAR-alpha as well as other PPARs. We administered fenofibrate to
SOD1(G93A) mice daily prior to any detectable phenotypes and then animal
behavior, pathology, and longevity were assessed. Treated animals showed
significant slowing of the progression of disease with weight loss attenuation,
enhanced motor performance, delayed onset and survival extension.
Histopathological analysis of the spinal cords showed that neuronal loss was
significantly attenuated in fenofibrate treated mice. Mitochondria were preserved
as indicated by cytochrome C immunostaining in the spinal cord, which may be
partly due to increased expression of the PPAR-gamma coactivator 1-alpha
(PGC-1alpha). Total mRNA analysis revealed that neuroprotective and
anti-inflammatory genes were elevated, while neuroinflammatory genes were
down-regulated. This study demonstrates that activation of PPAR-alpha action via 
fenofibrate leads to neuroprotection by both reducing neuroinflammation and
protecting mitochondria, which leads to a significant increase in survival in
SOD1(G93A) mice. Therefore, the development of therapeutic strategies to activate
PPAR-alpha as well as other PPARs may lead to new therapeutic agents to slow or
halt the progression of ALS.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For
Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

PMID: 26604138  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1. Neurosci Biobehav Rev. 2015 Nov 19;60:12-25. doi:
10.1016/j.neubiorev.2015.11.006. [Epub ahead of print]

Cognitive impairment in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, clues from the SOD1 mouse.

Spalloni A(1), Longone P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Neurobiology Unit, Experimental Neurology, Fondazione Santa Lucia,
Rome, Italy. (2)Molecular Neurobiology Unit, Experimental Neurology, Fondazione
Santa Lucia, Rome, Italy. Electronic address: p.longone@hsantalucia.it.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is now recognized as a multisystem disorder, 
in which the primary pathology is the degeneration of motor neurons, with
cognitive and/or behavioral dysfunctions that constitutes the non-motor
manifestations of ALS. The combination of clinical, neuroimaging, and
neuropathological data, and detailed genetic studies suggest that ALS and
frontotemporal dementia (FTD) might form part of a disease continuum, with pure
ALS and pure FTD at the two extremes. Mutations in the superoxide dismutase 1
(SOD1) gene were the first genetic mutations linked to the insurgence of ALS.
Since that discovery numerous animal models carrying SOD1 mutations have been
created. Despite their limitations these animal models, particularly the mice,
have broaden our knowledge on the system alterations occurring in the ALS
spectrum of disorders. The present review aims at providing an overview of the
data obtained with the SOD1 animal models first and foremost on the cortical and 
subcortical regions, the cortico-striatal and hippocampal synaptic plasticity,
dendritic branching and glutamate receptors function.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 26602023  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1. PLoS One. 2015 Nov 24;10(11):e0143420. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0143420.
eCollection 2015.

Mutant SOD1 Increases APP Expression and Phosphorylation in Cellular and Animal
Models of ALS.

Rabinovich-Toidman P(1), Rabinovich-Nikitin I(1), Ezra A(1), Barbiro B(1), Fogel 
H(2), Slutsky I(2), Solomon B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Microbiology & Biotechnology, George S. Wise Faculty
of Life Sciences, Tel-Aviv University,Tel-Aviv, Israel. (2)Department of
Physiology and Pharmacology, Sackler Faculty of Medicine; Sagol School of
Neuroscience, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease and it
is the most common adult onset neurodegenerative disorder affecting motor
neurons. There is currently no effective treatment for ALS and our understanding 
of the pathological mechanism is still far away from prevention and/or treatment 
of this devastating disease. Amyloid precursor protein (APP) is a transmembrane
protein that undergoes processing either by β-secretase or α-secretase, followed 
by γ-secretase. In the present study, we show that APP levels, and aberrant
phosphorylation, which is associated with enhanced β-secretase cleavage, are
increased in SOD1G93A ALS mouse model. Fluorescence resonance energy transfer
(FRET) analysis suggests a close interaction between SOD1 and APP at hippocampal 
synapses. Notably, SOD1G93A mutation induces APP-SOD1 conformational changes,
indicating a crosstalk between these two signaling proteins. Inhibition of APP
processing via monoclonal antibody called BBS that blocks APP β-secretase
cleavage site, resulted in reduction of mutant SOD1G93A levels in animal and
cellular models of ALS, significantly prolonged life span of SOD1G93A mice and
diminished inflammation. Beyond its effect on toxic mutant SOD1G93A, BBS
treatment resulted in a reduction in the levels of APP, its processing product
soluble APPβ and pro-apoptotic p53. This study demonstrates that APP and its
processing products contribute to ALS pathology through several different
pathways; thus BBS antibody could be a promising neuroprotective strategy for
treatment of this disease.

PMCID: PMC4658003
PMID: 26600047  [PubMed - in process]


1. PLoS One. 2015 Nov 23;10(11):e0141612. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0141612.
eCollection 2015.

Reduction of Adipose Tissue Mass by the Angiogenesis Inhibitor ALS-L1023 from
Melissa officinalis.

Park BY(1,)(2), Lee H(3), Woo S(3), Yoon M(3), Kim J(3), Hong Y(3), Lee HS(2),
Park EK(2), Hahm JC(2), Kim JW(1), Shin SS(4), Kim MY(2), Yoon M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and
Technology (KAIST), Daejeon, Korea. (2)AngioLab, Inc., Daejeon, Korea.
(3)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Mokwon University, Daejeon, Korea.
(4)Department of Formula Sciences, College of Oriental Medicine, Dongeui
University, Busan, Korea.

It has been suggested that angiogenesis modulates adipogenesis and obesity. This 
study was undertaken to determine whether ALS-L1023 (ALS) prepared by a two-step 
organic solvent fractionation from Melissa leaves, which exhibits antiangiogenic 
activity, can regulate adipose tissue growth. The effects of ALS on angiogenesis 
and extracellular matrix remodeling were measured using in vitro assays. The
effects of ALS on adipose tissue growth were investigated in high fat
diet-induced obese mice. ALS inhibited VEGF- and bFGF-induced endothelial cell
proliferation and suppressed matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) activity in vitro.
Compared to obese control mice, administration of ALS to obese mice reduced body 
weight gain, adipose tissue mass and adipocyte size without affecting appetite.
ALS treatment decreased blood vessel density and MMP activity in adipose tissues.
ALS reduced the mRNA levels of angiogenic factors (VEGF-A and FGF-2) and MMPs
(MMP-2 and MMP-9), whereas ALS increased the mRNA levels of angiogenic inhibitors
(TSP-1, TIMP-1, and TIMP-2) in adipose tissues. The protein levels of VEGF, MMP-2
and MMP-9 were also decreased by ALS in adipose tissue. Metabolic changes in
plasma lipids, liver triglycerides, and hepatic expression of fatty acid
oxidation genes occurred during ALS-induced weight loss. These results suggest
that ALS, which has antiangiogenic and MMP inhibitory activities, reduces adipose
tissue mass in nutritionally obese mice, demonstrating that adipose tissue growth
can be regulated by angiogenesis inhibitors.

PMCID: PMC4658083
PMID: 26599360  [PubMed - in process]


1. J Neuroinflammation. 2015 Nov 24;12(1):217. doi: 10.1186/s12974-015-0439-9.

PET imaging studies show enhanced expression of mGluR5 and inflammatory response 
during progressive degeneration in ALS mouse model expressing SOD1-G93A gene.

Brownell AL(1), Kuruppu D(2), Kil KE(3), Jokivarsi K(4), Poutiainen P(5), Zhu
A(6), Maxwell M(7).

Author information: 
(1)Athinoula A Martinos Biomedical Imaging Center, Imaging, Massachusetts General
Hospital, 149 13th Street, Charlestown, MA, USA. abrownell@mgh.harvard.edu.
(2)Department of Surgery, Massachusetts General Hospital, Charlestown,
Massachusett, USA. dkuruppu@partners.org. (3)Athinoula A Martinos Biomedical
Imaging Center, Imaging, Massachusetts General Hospital, 149 13th Street,
Charlestown, MA, USA. kkil@nmr.mgh.harvard.edu. (4)Athinoula A Martinos
Biomedical Imaging Center, Imaging, Massachusetts General Hospital, 149 13th
Street, Charlestown, MA, USA. kjokivarsi@uef.fi. (5)Athinoula A Martinos
Biomedical Imaging Center, Imaging, Massachusetts General Hospital, 149 13th
Street, Charlestown, MA, USA. ppoutiainen@partners.org. (6)Athinoula A Martinos
Biomedical Imaging Center, Imaging, Massachusetts General Hospital, 149 13th
Street, Charlestown, MA, USA. aijunzhu@nmr.mgh.harvard.edu. (7)Department of
Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Charlestown, Massachusett, USA.
mmaxwell@als.net.

BACKGROUND: Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive
neurodegenerative motor neuron disorder. Genetic studies have linked mutation of 
the gene SOD1 to ALS pathology as well as several other pathological processes
including modulation of glutamatergic function and inflammatory processes. Since 
therapeutic approaches for ALS are focused on glutamatergic function, we
investigated modulation of glutamate transport based on its receptor function as 
well as excitotoxicity-induced inflammatory response.
METHODS: In vivo positron emission tomography (PET) imaging studies of
metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 5 (mGluR5) using [(18)F]FPEB
([(18)F]3-fluoro-5-(2-pyridylethynyl)benzonitrile) and inflammatory response
using [(11)C]PBR28 (peripheral benzodiazepine receptor ligand 28) were done in an
early and a late phase of neurodegeneration in four ALS mice expressing SOD1-G93A
gene and four control base mice (C57/BL6). Accumulation of [(18)F]FPEB and
[(11)C]PBR28 were quantitated in several brain areas and spinal cord to determine
degeneration-induced modulation. The studies were completed with
immunohistochemical analyses of mGluR5 and inflammatory response.
RESULTS: These studies showed enhanced binding potential of [(18)F]FPEB in
several brain areas including striatum, hippocampus, and frontal cortex. In the
whole brain, the binding potential increased 49 ± 9 % from base mice to ALS-type 
mice and further enhanced 23 ± 4 % during disease progression. Also, in the
spinal cord 6-22 %, enhanced accumulation of [(18)F]FPEB was observed during
progression of the disease. The accumulation of [(11)C]PBR28 increased by
110 ± 33 % in the whole brain during progression of the disease indicating
significant inflammatory process. [(11)C]PBR28 accumulation enhanced 89-264 % in 
the spinal cord and 204 % in the lungs. The end point immunohistochemical
analyses verified the enhanced mGluR5 expression and inflammation.
CONCLUSIONS: These results confirm the role of glutamate and inflammation in
ALS-type pathology. These data also support the hypothesis that excessive
glutamate may contribute to inflammation in the chronic neurodegenerative
processes in ALS.

PMCID: PMC4657381
PMID: 26597638  [PubMed - in process]


1. J Neuroinflammation. 2015 Nov 24;12(1):215. doi: 10.1186/s12974-015-0435-0.

Inflammation and neuronal death in the motor cortex of the wobbler mouse, an ALS 
animal model.

Dahlke C(1), Saberi D(2), Ott B(3), Brand-Saberi B(4), Schmitt-John T(5), Theiss 
C(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cytology, Institute of Anatomy, Ruhr University Bochum,
Universitätsstraße 150, 44780, Bochum, Germany. carolin.dahlke@gmx.de.
(2)Department of Cytology, Institute of Anatomy, Ruhr University Bochum,
Universitätsstraße 150, 44780, Bochum, Germany. Darius.Saberi@uni-wh.de.
(3)Department of Cytology, Institute of Anatomy, Ruhr University Bochum,
Universitätsstraße 150, 44780, Bochum, Germany. ott.bastian@gmx.de. (4)Department
of Anatomy and Molecular Embryology, Institute of Anatomy, Ruhr University
Bochum, Universitätsstraße 150, 44780, Bochum, Germany.
Beate.Brand-Saberi@rub.de. (5)Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics,
Molecular Cell and Developmental Biology, University of Aarhus, C.F. Møllers Allé
3, 8000, Aarhus, Denmark. tsj@mb.au.dk. (6)Department of Cytology, Institute of
Anatomy, Ruhr University Bochum, Universitätsstraße 150, 44780, Bochum, Germany. 
carsten.theiss@rub.de.

BACKGROUND: Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative
disorder of the upper and lower motor neurons, characterized by rapid progressive
weakness, muscle atrophy, dysarthria, dysphagia, and dyspnea. Whereas the exact
cause of ALS remains uncertain, the wobbler mouse (phenotype WR; genotype wr/wr) 
equally develops a progressive degeneration of motor neurons in the spinal cord
and motor cortex with striking similarities to sporadic human ALS, suggesting the
possibility of a common pathway to cell death.
METHODS: With the aid of immunohistochemistry, confocal laser scanning
microscopy, and transmission electron microscopy techniques, we analyze the
proliferation behavior of microglial cells and astrocytes. We also investigate
possible motor neuron death in the mouse motor cortex at different stages of the 
wobbler disease, which so far has not received much attention.
RESULTS: An abnormal density of Iba-1-positive microglial cells expressing
pro-inflammatory tumor necrosis factor (TNF) alpha- and glial fibrillary acidic
protein (GFAP)-positive activated astroglial cells was detected in the motor
cortex region of the WR mouse 40 days postnatal (d.p.n.). Motor neurons in the
same area show caspase 3 activation indicating neurodegenerative processes, which
may cause progressive paralysis of the WR mice. It could also cause cell
degeneration, such as vacuolization, dilation of the ER, and swollen mitochondria
at the same time, and support the assumption that inflammation might be an
important contributing factor of motor neuron degeneration. This would appear to 
be confirmed by the fact that there was no conspicuous increase of microglial
cells and astrocytes in the motor cortex of control mice at any time.
CONCLUSIONS: Activated microglial cells secrete a variety of pro-inflammatory and
neurotoxic factors, such as TNF alpha, which could initiate apoptotic processes
in the affected wobbler motor neurons, as reflected by caspase 3 activation, and 
thus, the neuroinflammatory processes might influence or exacerbate the
neurodegeneration. Although it remains to be clarified whether the immune
response is primary or secondary and how harmful or beneficial it is in the WR
motor neuron disease, anti-inflammatory treatment might be considered.

PMCID: PMC4657283
PMID: 26597538  [PubMed - in process]


1. J Neuromuscul Dis. 2015;2(2):137-150. Epub 2015 Jun 4.

Characterization of the Contribution of Genetic Background and Gender to Disease 
Progression in the SOD1 G93A Mouse Model of Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis: A
Meta-Analysis.

Pfohl SR(1), Halicek MT(1), Mitchell CS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Georgia Institute of Technology and Emory University School of Medicine,
Atlanta, GA, USA.

BACKGROUND: The SOD1 G93A mouse model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is
the most frequently used model to examine ALS pathophysiology. There is a lack of
homogeneity in usage of the SOD1 G93A mouse, including differences in genetic
background and gender, which could confound the field's results.
OBJECTIVE: In an analysis of 97 studies, we characterized the ALS progression for
the high transgene copy control SOD1 G93A mouse on the basis of disease onset,
overall lifespan, and disease duration for male and female mice on the B6SJL and 
C57BL/6J genetic backgrounds and quantified magnitudes of differences between
groups.
METHODS: Mean age at onset, onset assessment measure, disease duration, and
overall lifespan data from each study were extracted and statistically modeled as
the response of linear regression with the sex and genetic background factored as
predictors. Additional examination was performed on differing experimental onset 
and endpoint assessment measures.
RESULTS: C57BL/6 background mice show delayed onset of symptoms, increased
lifespan, and an extended disease duration compared to their sex-matched B6SJL
counterparts. Female B6SJL generally experience extended lifespan and delayed
onset compared to their male counterparts, while female mice on the C57BL/6
background show delayed onset but no difference in survival compared to their
male counterparts. Finally, different experimental protocols (tremor, rotarod,
etc.) for onset determination result in notably different onset means.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, the observed effect of sex on disease endpoints was smaller
than that which can be attributed to the genetic background. The often-reported
increase in lifespan for female mice was observed only for mice on the B6SJL
background, implicating a strain-dependent effect of sex on disease progression
that manifests despite identical mutant SOD1 expression.

PMCID: PMC4652798
PMID: 26594635  [PubMed]


1. Front Cell Neurosci. 2015 Nov 6;9:434. doi: 10.3389/fncel.2015.00434. eCollection
2015.

Compartment-dependent mitochondrial alterations in experimental ALS, the effects 
of mitophagy and mitochondriogenesis.

Natale G(1), Lenzi P(1), Lazzeri G(1), Falleni A(2), Biagioni F(3), Ryskalin
L(1), Fornai F(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Translational Research and New Technologies in Medicine and
Surgery, University of Pisa Italy. (2)Department of Clinical and Experimental
Medicine, University of Pisa Italy. (3)I.R.C.C.S., Neuromed Pozzilli, Italy.
(4)Department of Translational Research and New Technologies in Medicine and
Surgery, University of Pisa Italy ; I.R.C.C.S., Neuromed Pozzilli, Italy.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is characterized by massive loss of motor
neurons. Data from ALS patients and experimental models indicate that
mitochondria are severely damaged within dying or spared motor neurons.
Nonetheless, recent data indicate that mitochondrial preservation, although
preventing motor neuron loss, fails to prolong lifespan. On the other hand, the
damage to motor axons plays a pivotal role in determining both lethality and
disease course. Thus, in the present article each motor neuron compartment (cell 
body, central, and peripheral axons) of G93A SOD-1 mice was studied concerning
mitochondrial alterations as well as other intracellular structures. We could
confirm the occurrence of ALS-related mitochondrial damage encompassing total
swelling, matrix dilution and cristae derangement along with non-pathological
variations of mitochondrial size and number. However, these alterations occur to 
a different extent depending on motor neuron compartment. Lithium, a well-known
autophagy inducer, prevents most pathological changes. However, the efficacy of
lithium varies depending on which motor neuron compartment is considered.
Remarkably, some effects of lithium are also evident in wild type mice. Lithium
is effective also in vitro, both in cell lines and primary cell cultures from the
ventral spinal cord. In these latter cells autophagy inhibition within motor
neurons in vitro reproduced ALS pathology which was reversed by lithium. Muscle
and glial cells were analyzed as well. Cell pathology was mostly severe within
peripheral axons and muscles of ALS mice. Remarkably, when analyzing motor axons 
of ALS mice a subtotal clogging of axoplasm was described for the first time,
which was modified under the effects of lithium. The effects induced by lithium
depend on several mechanisms such as direct mitochondrial protection, induction
of mitophagy and mitochondriogenesis. In this study, mitochondriogenesis induced 
by lithium was confirmed in situ by a novel approach using [2-(3)H]-adenosine.

PMCID: PMC4635226
PMID: 26594150  [PubMed]


1. Neuroscience. 2015 Nov 18;312:179-189. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2015.11.018.
[Epub ahead of print]

Length-dependent axo-terminal degeneration at the neuromuscular synapses of type 
II muscle in SOD1 mice.

Tallon C(1), Russell KA(1), Sakhalkar S(1), Andrapallayal N(1), Farah MH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, MD 21205, United States. (2)Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, United States. Electronic
address: mfarah2@jhmi.edu.

In motor neuron diseases, there is a prolonged period of time before any clinical
symptoms begin to appear. During this time, distal axonal degeneration, or "dying
back" axonopathy, begins to occur before the onset of clinical symptoms and motor
neuron death. This preclinical degeneration is a hallmark of motor neuron
diseases in both animal models and human patients. Generally, in muscles with
mixed fiber types, distal degeneration occurs in fast-fatigable α-motor axons
innervating type IIb muscle fibers before axons innervating slow, type I muscle
fibers. We investigated whether the "dying back" axonopathy in a pure
fast-fatigable α-motor axon nerve is a length-dependent process. The lateral
thoracic nerve (LTN) exclusively consists of motor nerves that innervate the very
thin cutaneous maximus muscle (CMM) that solely contains type II neuromuscular
synapses. We characterized the LTN and CMM synapses both morphologically and
physiologically in the superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) mutant mouse model of
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). By 60days of age, there was a significant
"dying back" phenomenon at the caudal region while the rostral region remained
intact. The longer axons innervating the caudal region appear to be more
susceptible to degeneration in the SOD1 mouse indicating that the axonal
degeneration of motor neurons innervating type II fibers is a length-dependent
process. Additionally, we identified how the simplicity of the LTN-CMM system
offers a better method to investigate axon degeneration in an ALS mouse model and
may be used to investigate possible therapeutic compounds for axon protection and
regeneration.

Copyright © 2015 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 26592719  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1. Sci Rep. 2015 Nov 20;5:16953. doi: 10.1038/srep16953.

Adipose-derived Stem Cell Conditioned Media Extends Survival time of a mouse
model of Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis.

Fontanilla CV(1), Gu H(1), Liu Q(2), Zhu TZ(1), Zhou C(2), Johnstone BH(3), March
KL(3), Pascuzzi RM(1), Farlow MR(1), Du Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, 
IN. (2)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, The 2nd Affiliated Hospital of Harbin
Medical University, Harbin, P.R.C. (3)Department of Medicine, Indiana University 
School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN.

Adipose stromal cells (ASC) secrete various trophic factors that assist in the
protection of neurons in a variety of neuronal death models. In this study, we
tested the effects of human ASC conditional medium (ASC-CM) in human amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis (ALS) transgenic mouse model expressing mutant superoxide
dismutase (SOD1(G93A)). Treating symptomatic SOD1(G93A) mice with ASC-CM
significantly increased post-onset survival time and lifespan. Moreover,
SOD1(G93A) mice given ASC-CM treatment showed high motor neuron counts, less
activation of microglia and astrocytes at an early symptomatic stage in the
spinal cords under immunohistochemical analysis. SOD1(G93A) mice treated with
ASC-CM for 7 days showed reduced levels of phosphorylated p38 (pp38) in the
spinal cord, a mitogen-activated protein kinase that is involved in both
inflammation and neuronal death. Additionally, the levels of α-II spectrin in
spinal cords were also inhibited in SOD1(G93A) mice treated with ASC-CM for 3
days. Interestingly, nerve growth factor (NGF), a neurotrophic factor found in
ASC-CM, played a significant role in the protection of neurodegeneration
inSOD1(G93A) mouse. These results indicate that ASC-CM has the potential to
develop into a novel and effective therapeutic treatment for ALS.

PMCID: PMC4653659
PMID: 26586020  [PubMed - in process]


1. Neurotox Res. 2015 Nov 18. [Epub ahead of print]

Additive Neuroprotective Effects of the Multifunctional Iron Chelator M30 with
Enriched Diet in a Mouse Model of Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis.

Golko-Perez S(1), Mandel S(1), Amit T(1), Kupershmidt L(1), Youdim MB(1), Weinreb
O(2).

Author information: 
(1)Eve Topf Center, Faculty of Medicine, Technion-Israel Institute of Technology,
P.O.B. 9697, 31096, Haifa, Israel. (2)Eve Topf Center, Faculty of Medicine,
Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, P.O.B. 9697, 31096, Haifa, Israel.
worly@tx.technion.ac.il.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is the most common degenerative disease of
the motoneuron system, involving various abnormalities, such as mitochondrial
dysfunction, oxidative stress, transitional metal accumulation,
neuroinflammation, glutamate excitotoxicity, apoptosis, decreased supply of
trophic factors, cytoskeletal abnormalities, and extracellular superoxide
dismutase (SOD)-1 toxicity. These multiple disease etiologies implicated in ALS
gave rise to the perception that future therapeutic approaches for the disease
should be aimed at targeting multiple pathological pathways. In line with this
view, we have evaluated in the current study the therapeutic effects of low doses
of the novel multifunctional monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor/iron-chelating
compound, M30 in combination with high Calorie Energy supplemented Diet (CED) in 
the SOD1-G93A transgenic mouse model of ALS. Our results demonstrated that the
combined administration of M30 with CED produced additive neuroprotective effects
on motor performance and increased survival of SOD1-G93A mice. We also found that
both M30 and M30/CED regimens caused a significant inhibition of MAO-A and -B
activities and decreased the turnover of dopamine in the brain of SOD1-G93A mice.
In addition, M30/CED combined treatment resulted in a significant increase in
mRNA expression levels of various mitochondrial biogenesis and metabolism
regulators, such as peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ (PPARγ)-co
activator 1 alpha (PGC-1α), PPARγ, uncoupling protein 1, and insulin receptor in 
the gastrocnemius muscle of SOD1-G93A mice. These results suggest that a
combination of drug/agents with different, but complementary mechanisms may be
beneficial in the treatment of ALS.

PMID: 26581376  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1. Stem Cells Dev. 2015 Nov 17. [Epub ahead of print]

Modeling Andersen's syndrome in human induced pluripotent stem cells.

Pini J(1,)(2), Rouleau M(1,)(3), Desnuelle C(4,)(5,)(6), Sacconi S(4,)(5,)(7),
Bendahhou S(8,)(9).

Author information: 
(1)UMR 7370 CNRS, LP2M, Nice, France. (2)University Nice Sophia Antipolis, France
; jonathan.pini@unice.fr. (3)University Nice Sophia Antipolis, France ;
matthieu.rouleau@unice.fr. (4)INSERM, U1081, Institute for Research on Cancer and
Aging of Nice (IRCAN), Nice, France. (5)CNRS, UMR 7284, Institute for Research on
Cancer and Aging of Nice (IRCAN), Nice, France. (6)Neuromuscular Diseases and ALS
specialized Center University of Nice-Sophia-Antipolis, Faculty of Medicine,
Nice, France ; desnuelle.c@chu-nice.fr. (7)Neuromuscular Diseases and ALS
specialized Center University of Nice-Sophia-Antipolis, Faculty of Medicine,
Nice, France ; sacconi@unice.fr. (8)UMR 7370 CNRS, LP2M , Faculté de Médecine ,
28 Av de Valombrose , Nice, France , 06107 , +33 624608412 , +33 493377024.
(9)University Nice Sophia Antipolis, France ; said.bendahhou@unice.fr.

Andersen's syndrome (AS) is a rare disorder characterized by a triad of symptoms:
periodic paralysis, cardiac arrhythmia and bone developmental defects. Most of
the patients carry mutations on the inward rectifier potassium channel Kir2.1
encoded by the KCNJ2 gene. kcnj2 knockout mice are lethal at birth preventing
hence thorough investigations of the physiological and pathophysiological events.
We have generated induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells from healthy as well as
from AS syndrome patient muscular biopsies using the four-gene cassette required 
for cellular reprogramming (Oct4, Sox2, Klf4 and c-Myc). The generated AS-iPS
cells exhibited the gold standard requirement for iPS cells: expression of
genetics and surface pluripotent markers, strong alkaline phosphatase activity,
self-renewal and could be differentiated, by formation of embryoid bodies, into
the three germ layers. Sequencing of the entire coding sequence of the KCNJ2
gene, in AS iPS cells, revealed that the reprogramming process didn't revert the 
AS Syndrome associated mutation. Moreover, no difference was observed between
control and AS iPS cells in term of pluripotent markers' expression, self-renewal
and three germ layer differentiation. Interestingly, expression of osteogenic
markers are lower in EB differentiated AS-iPS compared to control iPS cells. Our 
results showed that the Kir2.1 channel is not important for the reprogramming
process, and the early step of the development in vitro. However, the osteogenic 
machinery appears to be hastened in AS iPS cells, strongly indicating that the
generated AS iPS cells could be a good model to better understand the AS
pathophysiology.

PMID: 26573604  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1. Neurotox Res. 2015 Nov 12. [Epub ahead of print]

Bcl11b: A New Piece to the Complex Puzzle of Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis
Neuropathogenesis?

Lennon MJ(1,)(2), Jones SP(1,)(2), Lovelace MD(1,)(2), Guillemin GJ(3), Brew
BJ(4,)(5,)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Peter Duncan Neurosciences Research Unit, St Vincent's Centre for Applied
Medical Research, Sydney, Australia. (2)Faculty of Medicine, University of New
South Wales, Sydney, Australia. (3)Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, MND
Research Centre, Macquarie University, Sydney, Australia. (4)Peter Duncan
Neurosciences Research Unit, St Vincent's Centre for Applied Medical Research,
Sydney, Australia. B.Brew@unsw.edu.au. (5)Faculty of Medicine, University of New 
South Wales, Sydney, Australia. B.Brew@unsw.edu.au. (6)Department of Neurology,
St Vincent's Hospital, Level 4 Xavier Building, Victoria Street, Darlinghurst,
Sydney, NSW, 2010, Australia. B.Brew@unsw.edu.au.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is an idiopathic, fatal, neurodegenerative
disease of the human motor system. The pathogenesis of ALS is a topic of
fascinating speculation and experimentation, with theories revolving around
intracellular protein inclusions, mitochondrial structural issues, glutamate
excitotoxicity and free radical formation. This review explores the rationale for
the involvement of a novel protein, B-cell lymphoma/leukaemia 11b (Bcl11b) in
ALS. Bcl11b is a multifunctional zinc finger protein transcription factor. It
functions as both a transactivator and genetic suppressor, acting both directly, 
binding to promoter regions, and indirectly, binding to promoter-bound
transcription factors. It has essential roles in the differentiation and growth
of various cells in the central nervous system, immune system, integumentary
system and cardiovascular system, to the extent that Bcl11b knockout mice are
incompatible with extra-uterine life. It also has various roles in pathology
including the suppression of latent retroviruses, thymic tumourigenesis and
neurodegeneration. In particular its functions in neurodevelopment, viral latency
and T-cell development suggest potential roles in ALS pathology.

PMID: 26563995  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1. J Undergrad Neurosci Educ. 2015 Oct 15;14(1):A56-65. eCollection 2015.

Undergraduate Biocuration: Developing Tomorrow's Researchers While Mining Today's
Data.

Mitchell CS(1), Cates A(1), Kim RB(1), Hollinger SK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology & Emory University,
Atlanta, GA 30332.

Biocuration is a time-intensive process that involves extraction, transcription, 
and organization of biological or clinical data from disjointed data sets into a 
user-friendly database. Curated data is subsequently used primarily for text
mining or informatics analysis (bioinformatics, neuroinformatics, health
informatics, etc.) and secondarily as a researcher resource. Biocuration is
traditionally considered a Ph.D. level task, but a massive shortage of curators
to consolidate the ever-mounting biomedical "big data" opens the possibility of
utilizing biocuration as a means to mine today's data while teaching students
skill sets they can utilize in any career. By developing a biocuration assembly
line of simplified and compartmentalized tasks, we have enabled biocuration to be
effectively performed by a hierarchy of undergraduate students. We summarize the 
necessary physical resources, process for establishing a data path, biocuration
workflow, and undergraduate hierarchy of curation, technical, information
technology (IT), quality control and managerial positions. We detail the
undergraduate application and training processes and give detailed job
descriptions for each position on the assembly line. We present case studies of
neuropathology curation performed entirely by undergraduates, namely the
construction of experimental databases of Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS)
transgenic mouse models and clinical data from ALS patient records. Our results
reveal undergraduate biocuration is scalable for a group of 8-50+ with relatively
minimal required resources. Moreover, with average accuracy rates greater than
98.8%, undergraduate biocurators are equivalently accurate to their professional 
counterparts. Initial training to be completely proficient at the entry-level
takes about five weeks with a minimal student time commitment of four hours/week.

PMCID: PMC4640483
PMID: 26557796  [PubMed]


1. Acta Neuropathol Commun. 2015 Nov 10;3:68. doi: 10.1186/s40478-015-0246-7.

Investigating the role of filamin C in Belgian patients with frontotemporal
dementia linked to GRN deficiency in FTLD-TDP brains.

Janssens J(1,)(2,)(3), Philtjens S(4,)(5), Kleinberger G(6,)(7,)(8,)(9), Van
Mossevelde S(10,)(11), van der Zee J(12,)(13), Cacace R(14,)(15), Engelborghs
S(16,)(17), Sieben A(18,)(19,)(20), Banzhaf-Strathmann J(21), Dillen L(22,)(23), 
Merlin C(24,)(25), Cuijt I(26,)(27), Robberecht C(28,)(29), Schmid B(30,)(31),
Santens P(32), Ivanoiu A(33), Vandenbulcke M(34,)(35), Vandenberghe R(36,)(37),
Cras P(38,)(39), De Deyn PP(40,)(41,)(42), Martin JJ(43), Maudsley S(44,)(45),
Haass C(46,)(47,)(48), Cruts M(49,)(50), Van Broeckhoven C(51,)(52); Belgian
Neurology (BELNEU) consortium.

Collaborators: Van Langenhove T, De Bleecker J, Dermaut B, Deryck O, Bergmans B, 
Michotte A, Versijpt J, Willems C, Salmon E.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Brain Diseases group, VIB Department of Molecular Genetics, 
University of Antwerp - CDE, Universiteitsplein 1, B-2610, Antwerp, Belgium.
jonathan.janssens@molgen.vib-ua.be. (2)Institute Born-Bunge, University of
Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium. jonathan.janssens@molgen.vib-ua.be. (3)Translational
Neurobiology Group, Department of Molecular Genetics, VIB, Antwerp, Belgium.
jonathan.janssens@molgen.vib-ua.be. (4)Neurodegenerative Brain Diseases group,
VIB Department of Molecular Genetics, University of Antwerp - CDE,
Universiteitsplein 1, B-2610, Antwerp, Belgium.
Stephanie.Philtjens@molgen.vib-ua.be. (5)Institute Born-Bunge, University of
Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium. Stephanie.Philtjens@molgen.vib-ua.be.
(6)Neurodegenerative Brain Diseases group, VIB Department of Molecular Genetics, 
University of Antwerp - CDE, Universiteitsplein 1, B-2610, Antwerp, Belgium.
Gernot.Kleinberger@mail03.med.uni-muenchen.de. (7)Institute Born-Bunge,
University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium.
Gernot.Kleinberger@mail03.med.uni-muenchen.de. (8)Biomedical Center (BMC),
Biochemistry, Ludwig-Maximilians University Munich, Munich, Germany.
Gernot.Kleinberger@mail03.med.uni-muenchen.de. (9)Munich Cluster for Systems
Neurology (SyNergy), Munich, Germany.
Gernot.Kleinberger@mail03.med.uni-muenchen.de. (10)Neurodegenerative Brain
Diseases group, VIB Department of Molecular Genetics, University of Antwerp -
CDE, Universiteitsplein 1, B-2610, Antwerp, Belgium.
Sara.VanMossevelde@molgen.vib-ua.be. (11)Institute Born-Bunge, University of
Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium. Sara.VanMossevelde@molgen.vib-ua.be.
(12)Neurodegenerative Brain Diseases group, VIB Department of Molecular Genetics,
University of Antwerp - CDE, Universiteitsplein 1, B-2610, Antwerp, Belgium.
julie.vanderzee@molgen.vib-ua.be. (13)Institute Born-Bunge, University of
Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium. julie.vanderzee@molgen.vib-ua.be.
(14)Neurodegenerative Brain Diseases group, VIB Department of Molecular Genetics,
University of Antwerp - CDE, Universiteitsplein 1, B-2610, Antwerp, Belgium.
rita.cacace@molgen.vib-ua.be. (15)Institute Born-Bunge, University of Antwerp,
Antwerp, Belgium. rita.cacace@molgen.vib-ua.be. (16)Institute Born-Bunge,
University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium. sebastiaan.engelborghs@uantwerpen.be.
(17)Department of Neurology and Memory Clinic, Hospital Network Antwerp,
Middelheim and Hoge Beuken, Antwerp, Belgium.
sebastiaan.engelborghs@uantwerpen.be. (18)Neurodegenerative Brain Diseases group,
VIB Department of Molecular Genetics, University of Antwerp - CDE,
Universiteitsplein 1, B-2610, Antwerp, Belgium. annesieben@yahoo.com.
(19)Institute Born-Bunge, University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium.
annesieben@yahoo.com. (20)Department of Neurology, University Hospital Ghent and 
University of Ghent, Ghent, Belgium. annesieben@yahoo.com. (21)German Center for 
Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Munich, Germany. julia.banzhaf@dzne.lmu.de.
(22)Neurodegenerative Brain Diseases group, VIB Department of Molecular Genetics,
University of Antwerp - CDE, Universiteitsplein 1, B-2610, Antwerp, Belgium.
lubina.dillen@molgen.vib-ua.be. (23)Institute Born-Bunge, University of Antwerp, 
Antwerp, Belgium. lubina.dillen@molgen.vib-ua.be. (24)Neurodegenerative Brain
Diseases group, VIB Department of Molecular Genetics, University of Antwerp -
CDE, Universiteitsplein 1, B-2610, Antwerp, Belgium.
celine.merlin@molgen.vib-ua.be. (25)Institute Born-Bunge, University of Antwerp, 
Antwerp, Belgium. celine.merlin@molgen.vib-ua.be. (26)Neurodegenerative Brain
Diseases group, VIB Department of Molecular Genetics, University of Antwerp -
CDE, Universiteitsplein 1, B-2610, Antwerp, Belgium. ivy.cuijt@molgen.vib-ua.be. 
(27)Institute Born-Bunge, University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium.
ivy.cuijt@molgen.vib-ua.be. (28)Neurodegenerative Brain Diseases group, VIB
Department of Molecular Genetics, University of Antwerp - CDE, Universiteitsplein
1, B-2610, Antwerp, Belgium. caroline.robberecht@molgen.vib-ua.be. (29)Institute 
Born-Bunge, University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium.
caroline.robberecht@molgen.vib-ua.be. (30)German Center for Neurodegenerative
Diseases (DZNE), Munich, Germany. bettina.schmid@med.uni-muenchen.de. (31)Munich 
Cluster for Systems Neurology (SyNergy), Munich, Germany.
bettina.schmid@med.uni-muenchen.de. (32)Department of Neurology, University
Hospital Ghent and University of Ghent, Ghent, Belgium. Patrick.Santens@UGent.be.
(33)Department of Neurology, Saint-Luc University Hospital and Institute of
Neuroscience, Université Catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium.
adrian.ivanoiu@uclouvain.be. (34)Department of Neurosciences, Faculty of
Medicine, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium. mathieu.vandenbulcke@uz.kuleuven.ac.be.
(35)Department of Old Age Psychiatry and Memory Clinic, University of Leuven,
Leuven, Belgium. mathieu.vandenbulcke@uz.kuleuven.ac.be. (36)Department of
Neurosciences, Faculty of Medicine, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
rik.vandenberghe@uz.kuleuven.ac.be. (37)Department of Neurology, University
Hospitals Leuven, Leuven, Belgium. rik.vandenberghe@uz.kuleuven.ac.be.
(38)Institute Born-Bunge, University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium.
patrick.cras@uantwerpen.be. (39)Department of Neurology, Antwerp University
Hospital, Edegem, Belgium. patrick.cras@uantwerpen.be. (40)Institute Born-Bunge, 
University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium. p.p.de.deyn@umcg.nl. (41)Department of
Neurology and Memory Clinic, Hospital Network Antwerp, Middelheim and Hoge
Beuken, Antwerp, Belgium. p.p.de.deyn@umcg.nl. (42)Department of Neurology and
Alzheimer Research Center, University of Groningen and University Medical Center 
Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands. p.p.de.deyn@umcg.nl. (43)Institute
Born-Bunge, University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium.
jean-jacques.martin@uantwerpen.be. (44)Institute Born-Bunge, University of
Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium. Stuart.Maudsley@molgen.vib-ua.be. (45)Translational
Neurobiology Group, Department of Molecular Genetics, VIB, Antwerp, Belgium.
Stuart.Maudsley@molgen.vib-ua.be. (46)German Center for Neurodegenerative
Diseases (DZNE), Munich, Germany. chaass@med.uni-muenchen.de. (47)Biomedical
Center (BMC), Biochemistry, Ludwig-Maximilians University Munich, Munich,
Germany. chaass@med.uni-muenchen.de. (48)Munich Cluster for Systems Neurology
(SyNergy), Munich, Germany. chaass@med.uni-muenchen.de. (49)Neurodegenerative
Brain Diseases group, VIB Department of Molecular Genetics, University of Antwerp
- CDE, Universiteitsplein 1, B-2610, Antwerp, Belgium.
marc.cruts@molgen.vib-ua.be. (50)Institute Born-Bunge, University of Antwerp,
Antwerp, Belgium. marc.cruts@molgen.vib-ua.be. (51)Neurodegenerative Brain
Diseases group, VIB Department of Molecular Genetics, University of Antwerp -
CDE, Universiteitsplein 1, B-2610, Antwerp, Belgium.
christine.vanbroeckhoven@molgen.vib-ua.be. (52)Institute Born-Bunge, University
of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium. christine.vanbroeckhoven@molgen.vib-ua.be.

TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) inclusions are pathological hallmarks of
patients with frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) and amyotrophic lateral
sclerosis (ALS). Loss of TDP-43 in zebrafish engenders a severe muscle and
vascular phenotype with a concomitant elevation of filamin C (FLNC) levels, an
observation confirmed in the frontal cortex of FTLD-TDP patients. Here, we aimed 
to further assess the contribution of FLNC to frontotemporal dementia (FTD)
etiology. We conducted a mutational screening of FLNC in a cohort of 529
unrelated Belgian FTD and FTD-ALS patients, and a control cohort of 920 unrelated
and age-matched individuals. Additionally we performed an in-depth
characterization of FLNC expression levels in FTD patients and a murine FTD
model.In total 68 missense variants were identified of which 19 (MAF < 1%) were
patient-only. Gene burden analysis demonstrated a significant association between
the presence of rare variants in FLNC and disease (P = 0.0349, RR = 1.46 [95% CI 
1.03-2.07]). Furthermore, elevated FLNC expression levels, observed previously in
FTLD-TDP patients, were mainly attributable to FTD patients with the progranulin 
(GRN) p.0(IVS1 + 5G > C) loss-of-function mutation. Increased FLNC levels were,
to a lesser extent, also identified in a FLNC p.V831I variant carrier and in FTD 
patients with the p.R159H mutation in valosin-containing protein (VCP). The
GRN-associated increase of FLNC was confirmed in the frontal cortex of aged Grn
knockout mice starting at 16-18 months of age. Combined quantitative proteomic
and bioinformatic analyses of the frontal cortex of FTD patients possessing
elevated FLNC levels, identified multiple altered protein factors involved in
accelerated aging, neurodegeneration and synaptogenesis.Our findings further
support the involvement of aberrant FLNC expression levels in FTD pathogenesis.
Identification of increased FLNC levels in aged Grn mice and impaired pathways
related to aging and neurodegeneration, implies a potential role for FLNC in
mediating or accelerating the aging process.

PMCID: PMC4641381
PMID: 26555887  [PubMed - in process]


1. Am J Transl Res. 2015 Sep 15;7(9):1574-87. eCollection 2015.

The altered autophagy mediated by TFEB in animal and cell models of amyotrophic
lateral sclerosis.

Chen Y(1), Liu H(2), Guan Y(3), Wang Q(4), Zhou F(5), Jie L(3), Ju J(3), Pu L(3),
Du H(3), Wang X(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Histology and Embryology, Weifang Medical University Weifang,
Shandong, PR China ; Department of Neurosurgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital,
Harvard Medical School Boston, MA, USA. (2)Department of Orthopedic Surgery,
Clinical College, Weifang Medical University Weifang, Shandong, PR China.
(3)Department of Histology and Embryology, Weifang Medical University Weifang,
Shandong, PR China. (4)Department of Human Anatomy, Weifang Medical University
Weifang, Shandong, PR China. (5)Department of Pathology, Weifang Medical
University Weifang, Shandong, PR China. (6)Department of Neurosurgery, Brigham
and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School Boston, MA, USA.

Autophagy is an intracellular degradation process that clears away aggregated
proteins or aged and damaged organelles. Abnormalities in autophagy result in
defects in clearance of these misfolded and aggregate proteins, which have been
associated with neurodegenerative disorders. A key neuropathological hallmark of 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) that contributes to the progressive loss of
motor neurons is abnormal protein aggregation of mutant Cu/Zn superoxide
dismutase1 (SOD1). TFEB is a recently described gene that regulates autophagy.
Several studies have reported that autophagy is altered in ALS, but little is
known about the role and mechanisms of TFEB-mediated autophagy during the
progression of ALS. In this study, altered expression of TFEB and Beclin-1 were
detected in the spinal cords of ALS transgenic mice at different stages and in an
NSC-34 cell model with the SOD1-G93A mutation using RT-PCR, western blot, and
immunohistochemistry. The majority of cells positive for TFEB and Beclin-1 are
β-tubulin III-labeled neurons, especially in the anterior horn of the gray
matter. Overexpression of TFEB in NSC-34 cells with the SOD1-G93A mutation
increased the mRNA and protein levels of Beclin-1, accompanied by increased
levels of LC3-II protein. MTS assay revealed that TFEB overexpression increased
proliferation and survival of NSC-34 cells with the SOD1-G93A mutation. Our
findings suggest that TFEB promotes autophagy by enhancing the expression of
Beclin-1. The altered autophagy mediated by TFEB is a key element in the
pathogenesis of ALS, making TFEB a very promising target for the development of
novel drugs and new gene therapeutics for ALS.

PMCID: PMC4626419
PMID: 26550457  [PubMed]


1. Front Aging Neurosci. 2015 Oct 20;7:204. doi: 10.3389/fnagi.2015.00204.
eCollection 2015.

PGC-1α Silencing Compounds the Perturbation of Mitochondrial Function Caused by
Mutant SOD1 in Skeletal Muscle of ALS Mouse Model.

Qi Y(1), Yin X(1), Wang S(1), Jiang H(1), Wang X(1), Ren M(2), Su XP(3), Lei
S(3), Feng H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, The First Clinical College of Harbin Medical
University , Harbin , China. (2)Department of Neurology, Uniformed Services
University of the Health Sciences , Bethesda, MD , USA. (3)College of Biological 
and Pharmaceutical Sciences, China Three Gorges University , Yichang , China.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a lethal neurodegenerative disease causing
death of motor neurons. This study investigated the roles of energy metabolism in
the pathogenesis of ALS in the SOD1(G93A) transgenic mouse model. Control and
SOD1(G93A) mice were administered with shcontrol or shPGC-1α in combination with 
PBS or thiazolidinedione (TZD) for 8 weeks. Gene expression was analyzed by
quantitative real-time PCR and Western blot. ROS and fibrosis were assessed with 
a colorimetric kit and Sirius staining, respectively. Inflammatory cytokines were
measured using ELISA kits. The levels of tissue ROS and serum inflammatory
cytokines were significantly higher in SOD1(G93A) mice compared to control mice, 
and knocking down peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator
1-alpha (PGC-1α) drastically increased cytokine levels in both control and
SOD1(G93A) mice. Muscle fibrosis was much severer in SOD1(G93A) mice, and
worsened by silencing PGC-1α and attenuated by TZD. The expression levels of
PGC-1α, SOD1, UCP2, and cytochrome C were substantially reduced by shPGC-1α and
increased by TZD in muscle of both control and SOD1(G93A) mice, whereas the level
of NF-κB was significantly elevated in SOD1(G93A) mice, which was further
increased by PGC-1α silencing. These data indicated that disruption of energy
homeostasis would exacerbate the pathological changes caused by SOD1 mutations to
promote the pathogenesis of ALS.

PMCID: PMC4611176
PMID: 26539112  [PubMed]


1. Front Neurosci. 2015 Oct 21;9:381. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2015.00381. eCollection
2015.

VPS54 and the wobbler mouse.

Schmitt-John T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neurogenetics, Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Aarhus University
Aarhus, Denmark ; Tauros-Diagnostik Bielefeld, Germany.

The wobbler mouse is an animal model for human motor neuron disease, such as
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). The spontaneous, recessive wobbler mutation 
causes degeneration of upper and lower motor neurons leading to progressive
muscle weakness with striking similarities to the ALS pathology. The wobbler
mutation is a point mutation affecting Vps54, a component of the Golgi-associated
retrograde protein (GARP) complex. The GARP complex is a ubiquitously expressed
Golgi-localized vesicle tethering complex, tethering endosome-derived vesicles to
the trans Golgi network. The wobbler point mutation leads to a destabilization of
the Vps54 protein and thereby the whole GARP complex. This effectuates
impairments of the retrograde vesicle transport, mis-sorting of Golgi- and
endosome localized proteins and on the long run defects in Golgi morphology and
function. It is currently largely unknown how the destabilization of the GARP
complex interferes with the pathological hallmarks, reported for the wobbler
motor neuron degeneration, like neurofilament aggregation, axonal transport
defects, hyperexcitability, mitochondrial dysfunction, and how these finally lead
to motor neuron death. However, the impairments of the retrograde vesicle
transport and the Golgi-function appear to be critical phenomena in the molecular
pathology of the wobbler motor neuron disease.

PMCID: PMC4612502
PMID: 26539077  [PubMed]


1. Neurochem Res. 2015 Nov 4. [Epub ahead of print]

Treatment with Hydrogen-Rich Saline Delays Disease Progression in a Mouse Model
of Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis.

Zhang Y(1), Li H(1), Yang C(1), Fan DF(1), Guo DZ(1), Hu HJ(1), Meng XE(1), Pan
SY(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hyperbaric Oxygen, PLA Navy General Hospital, 6 Fucheng Road,
Beijing, 100048, China. (2)Department of Hyperbaric Oxygen, PLA Navy General
Hospital, 6 Fucheng Road, Beijing, 100048, China. pansynavy@hotmail.com.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is the most frequent adult-onset motor neuron
disease, and accumulating evidence indicates that oxidative mechanisms contribute
to ALS pathology, but classical antioxidants have not performed well in clinical 
trials. The aim of this work was to investigate the effect of treatment with
hydrogen molecule on the development of disease in mutant SOD1 G93A transgenic
mouse model of ALS. Treatment of mutant SOD1 G93A mice with hydrogen-rich saline 
(HRS, i.p.) significantly delayed disease onset and prolonged survival, and
attenuated loss of motor neurons and suppressed microglial and glial activation. 
Treatment of mutant SOD1 G93A mice with HRS inhibited the release of
mitochondrial apoptogenic factors and the subsequent activation of downstream
caspase-3. Furthermore, treatment of mutant SOD1 G93A mice with HRS reduced
levels of protein carbonyl and 3-nitrotyrosine, and suppressed formation of
reactive oxygen species (ROS), peroxynitrite, and malondialdehyde. Treatment of
mutant SOD1 G93A mice with HRS preserved mitochondrial function, marked by
restored activities of Complex I and IV, reduced mitochondrial ROS formation and 
enhanced mitochondrial adenosine triphosphate synthesis. In conclusion, hydrogen 
molecule may be neuroprotective against ALS, possibly through abating oxidative
and nitrosative stress and preserving mitochondrial function.

PMID: 26537817  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1. Sci Rep. 2015 Nov 4;5:15710. doi: 10.1038/srep15710.

Identification of Reliable Components in Multivariate Curve
Resolution-Alternating Least Squares (MCR-ALS): a Data-Driven Approach across
Metabolic Processes.

Motegi H(1), Tsuboi Y(2), Saga A(1), Kagami T(1), Inoue M(1), Toki H(1), Minowa
O(1), Noda T(1,)(3), Kikuchi J(2,)(4,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Team for Advanced Development and Evaluation of Human Disease Models, RIKEN
BioResource Center, 3-1-1 Koyadai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, 305-0074, Japan. (2)RIKEN
Center for Sustainable Resource Science, 1-7-22 Suehiro-cho, Tsurumi-ku,
Yokohama, Kanagawa 230-0045, Japan. (3)Department of Cell Biology, Cancer
Institute, Japanese Foundation for Cancer Research (JFCR), 3-8-31 Ariake,
Koto-ku, Tokyo 135-8550, Japan. (4)Graduate School of Medical Life Science,
Yokohama City University, 1-7-29 Suehiro-cho, Tsurumi-ku, Yokohama, Kanagawa
230-0045, Japan. (5)Graduate School of Bioagricultural Sciences, Nagoya
University, 1 Furo-cho, Chikusa-ku, Nagoya, Aichi 464-0810, Japan.

There is an increasing need to use multivariate statistical methods for
understanding biological functions, identifying the mechanisms of diseases, and
exploring biomarkers. In addition to classical analyses such as hierarchical
cluster analysis, principal component analysis, and partial least squares
discriminant analysis, various multivariate strategies, including independent
component analysis, non-negative matrix factorization, and multivariate curve
resolution, have recently been proposed. However, determining the number of
components is problematic. Despite the proposal of several different methods, no 
satisfactory approach has yet been reported. To resolve this problem, we
implemented a new idea: classifying a component as "reliable" or "unreliable"
based on the reproducibility of its appearance, regardless of the number of
components in the calculation. Using the clustering method for classification, we
applied this idea to multivariate curve resolution-alternating least squares
(MCR-ALS). Comparisons between conventional and modified methods applied to
proton nuclear magnetic resonance ((1)H-NMR) spectral datasets derived from known
standard mixtures and biological mixtures (urine and feces of mice) revealed that
more plausible results are obtained by the modified method. In particular,
clusters containing little information were detected with reliability. This
strategy, named "cluster-aided MCR-ALS," will facilitate the attainment of more
reliable results in the metabolomics datasets.

PMCID: PMC4632111
PMID: 26531245  [PubMed - in process]


1. Front Cell Neurosci. 2015 Oct 15;9:410. doi: 10.3389/fncel.2015.00410.
eCollection 2015.

Lysosomal and phagocytic activity is increased in astrocytes during disease
progression in the SOD1 (G93A) mouse model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.

Baker DJ(1), Blackburn DJ(1), Keatinge M(1), Sokhi D(1), Viskaitis P(1), Heath
PR(1), Ferraiuolo L(1), Kirby J(1), Shaw PJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Sheffield Institute for Translational
Neuroscience, University of Sheffield Sheffield, UK.

Astrocytes are key players in the progression of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis
(ALS). Previously, gene expression profiling of astrocytes from the
pre-symptomatic stage of the SOD1(G93A) model of ALS has revealed reduced lactate
metabolism and altered trophic support. Here, we have performed microarray
analysis of symptomatic and late-stage disease astrocytes isolated by laser
capture microdissection (LCM) from the lumbar spinal cord of the SOD1(G93A) mouse
to complete the picture of astrocyte behavior throughout the disease course.
Astrocytes at symptomatic and late-stage disease show a distinct up-regulation of
transcripts defining a reactive phenotype, such as those involved in the lysosome
and phagocytic pathways. Functional analysis of hexosaminidase B enzyme activity 
in the spinal cord and of astrocyte phagocytic ability has demonstrated a
significant increase in lysosomal enzyme activity and phagocytic activity in
SOD1(G93A) vs. littermate controls, validating the findings of the microarray
study. In addition to the increased reactivity seen at both stages, astrocytes
from late-stage disease showed decreased expression of many transcripts involved 
in cholesterol homeostasis. Staining for the master regulator of cholesterol
synthesis, SREBP2, has revealed an increased localization to the cytoplasm of
astrocytes and motor neurons in late-stage SOD1(G93A) spinal cord, indicating
that down-regulation of transcripts may be due to an excess of cholesterol in the
CNS during late-stage disease possibly due to phagocytosis of neuronal debris.
Our data reveal that SOD1(G93A) astrocytes are characterized more by a loss of
supportive function than a toxic phenotype during ALS disease progression and
future studies should focus upon restorative therapies.

PMCID: PMC4606544
PMID: 26528138  [PubMed]


1. Brain. 2015 Nov 2. pii: awv308. [Epub ahead of print]

MTHFSD and DDX58 are novel RNA-binding proteins abnormally regulated in
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.

MacNair L(1), Xiao S(2), Miletic D(2), Ghani M(2), Julien JP(3), Keith J(4),
Zinman L(5), Rogaeva E(2), Robertson J(6).

Author information: 
(1)1 Tanz Centre for Research in Neurodegenerative Diseases, University of
Toronto, Toronto, ON, M5T 2S8, Canada 2 Department of Laboratory Medicine and
Pathobiology, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, M5S 1A1, Canada. (2)1 Tanz
Centre for Research in Neurodegenerative Diseases, University of Toronto,
Toronto, ON, M5T 2S8, Canada. (3)3 Département de psychiatrie et de
neurosciences, Université Laval, Québec G1V 0A6, Canada. (4)2 Department of
Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, M5S
1A1, Canada 4 Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, 2075 Bayview Avenue, Toronto,
ON, M4N 3M5, Canada. (5)4 Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, 2075 Bayview Avenue,
Toronto, ON, M4N 3M5, Canada. (6)1 Tanz Centre for Research in Neurodegenerative 
Diseases, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, M5T 2S8, Canada 2 Department of
Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, M5S
1A1, Canada jan.robertson@utoronto.ca.

Tar DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) is an RNA-binding protein normally localized 
to the nucleus of cells, where it elicits functions related to RNA metabolism
such as transcriptional regulation and alternative splicing. In amyotrophic
lateral sclerosis, TDP-43 is mislocalized from the nucleus to the cytoplasm of
diseased motor neurons, forming ubiquitinated inclusions. Although mutations in
the gene encoding TDP-43, TARDBP, are found in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis,
these are rare. However, TDP-43 pathology is common to over 95% of amyotrophic
lateral sclerosis cases, suggesting that abnormalities of TDP-43 play an active
role in disease pathogenesis. It is our hypothesis that a loss of TDP-43 from the
nucleus of affected motor neurons in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis will lead to
changes in RNA processing and expression. Identifying these changes could uncover
molecular pathways that underpin motor neuron degeneration. Here we have used
translating ribosome affinity purification coupled with microarray analysis to
identify the mRNAs being actively translated in motor neurons of mutant
TDP-43(A315T) mice compared to age-matched non-transgenic littermates. No
significant changes were found at 5 months (presymptomatic) of age, but at 10
months (symptomatic) the translational profile revealed significant changes in
genes involved in RNA metabolic process, immune response and cell cycle
regulation. Of 28 differentially expressed genes, seven had a ≥2-fold change;
four were validated by immunofluorescence labelling of motor neurons in
TDP-43(A315T) mice, and two of these were confirmed by immunohistochemistry in
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis cases. Both of these identified genes, DDX58 and
MTHFSD, are RNA-binding proteins, and we show that TDP-43 binds to their
respective mRNAs and we identify MTHFSD as a novel component of stress granules. 
This discovery-based approach has for the first time revealed translational
changes in motor neurons of a TDP-43 mouse model, identifying DDX58 and MTHFSD as
two TDP-43 targets that are misregulated in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.

© The Author (2015). Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
Guarantors of Brain. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email:
journals.permissions@oup.com.

PMID: 26525917  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1. Neuroscience. 2015 Dec 17;311:415-21. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2015.10.037.
Epub 2015 Oct 27.

An age-related reduction of brain TBPH/TDP-43 levels precedes the onset of
locomotion defects in a Drosophila ALS model.

Cragnaz L(1), Klima R(1), De Conti L(1), Romano G(1), Feiguin F(1), Buratti E(1),
Baralle M(1), Baralle FE(2).

Author information: 
(1)ICGEB - International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology,
Padriciano 99, 34149 Trieste, Italy. (2)ICGEB - International Centre for Genetic 
Engineering and Biotechnology, Padriciano 99, 34149 Trieste, Italy. Electronic
address: baralle@icgeb.org.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease. The
average age of onset of both sporadic and familial cases is 50-60years of age.
The presence of cytoplasmic inclusions of the RNA-binding protein TAR DNA-binding
protein-43 (TDP-43) in the affected neurons is seen in 95% of the ALS cases,
which results in TDP-43 nuclear clearance and loss of function. The Drosophila
melanogaster ortholog of TDP-43 (TBPH) shares many characteristics with the human
protein. Using a TDP-43 aggregation inducer previously developed in human cells, 
we created a transgenic fly that shows an adult locomotive defect. Phenotype
onset correlates with a physiologically age-related drop of TDP-43/TBPH mRNA and 
protein levels, seen both in mice and flies. Artificial reduction of mRNA levels,
in vivo, anticipates the locomotion defect to the larval stage. Our study links, 
for the first time, aggregation and the age-related, evolutionary conserved
reduction of TDP-43/TBPH levels with the onset of an ALS-like locomotion defect
in a Drosophila model. A similar process might trigger the human disease.

Copyright © 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

PMID: 26518462  [PubMed - in process]


1. PLoS One. 2015 Oct 28;10(10):e0141836. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0141836.
eCollection 2015.

Transcriptomic Changes Due to Cytoplasmic TDP-43 Expression Reveal Dysregulation 
of Histone Transcripts and Nuclear Chromatin.

Amlie-Wolf A(1), Ryvkin P(1), Tong R(1), Dragomir I(2), Suh E(1), Xu Y(1), Van
Deerlin VM(1), Gregory BD(2), Kwong LK(1), Trojanowski JQ(1), Lee VM(1), Wang
LS(1), Lee EB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Perelman School of Medicine, 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, United States of America.
(2)Department of Biology, School of Arts and Sciences, University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, United States of America.

TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) is normally a nuclear RNA-binding protein
that exhibits a range of functions including regulation of alternative splicing, 
RNA trafficking, and RNA stability. However, in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis
(ALS) and frontotemporal lobar degeneration with TDP-43 inclusions (FTLD-TDP),
TDP-43 is abnormally phosphorylated, ubiquitinated, and cleaved, and is
mislocalized to the cytoplasm where it forms distinctive aggregates. We
previously developed a mouse model expressing human TDP-43 with a mutation in its
nuclear localization signal (ΔNLS-hTDP-43) so that the protein preferentially
localizes to the cytoplasm. These mice did not exhibit a significant number of
cytoplasmic aggregates, but did display dramatic changes in gene expression as
measured by microarray, suggesting that cytoplasmic TDP-43 may be associated with
a toxic gain-of-function. Here, we analyze new RNA-sequencing data from the
ΔNLS-hTDP-43 mouse model, together with published RNA-sequencing data obtained
previously from TDP-43 antisense oligonucleotide (ASO) knockdown mice to
investigate further the dysregulation of gene expression in the ΔNLS model. This 
analysis reveals that the transcriptomic effects of the overexpression of the
ΔNLS-hTDP-43 transgene are likely due to a gain of cytoplasmic function.
Moreover, cytoplasmic TDP-43 expression alters transcripts that regulate
chromatin assembly, the nucleolus, lysosomal function, and histone 3'
untranslated region (UTR) processing. These transcriptomic alterations correlate 
with observed histologic abnormalities in heterochromatin structure and nuclear
size in transgenic mouse and human brains.

PMCID: PMC4624943
PMID: 26510133  [PubMed - in process]


1. J Comp Neurol. 2015 Oct 26. doi: 10.1002/cne.23917. [Epub ahead of print]

Cross-disease comparison of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and spinal muscular
atrophy reveals conservation of selective vulnerability but differential
neuromuscular junction pathology.

Comley LH(1), Nijssen J(1), Frost-Nylen J(1), Hedlund E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.

Neuromuscular junctions are primary pathological targets in the lethal motor
neuron diseases spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis
(ALS). Synaptic pathology and denervation of target muscle fibers has been
reported prior to the appearance of clinical symptoms in mouse models of both
diseases, suggesting that neuromuscular junctions are highly vulnerable from the 
very early stages, and are a key target for therapeutic intervention. Here we
examined neuromuscular pathology longitudinally in three clinically relevant
muscle groups in mouse models of ALS and SMA in order to assess their relative
vulnerabilities. We show for the first time that neuromuscular junctions of the
extraocular muscles (responsible for the control of eye movement) were resistant 
to degeneration in endstage SMA mice, as well as in late symptomatic ALS mice.
Tongue muscle neuromuscular junctions were also spared in both animal models.
Conversely, neuromuscular junctions of the lumbrical muscles of the hind-paw were
vulnerable in both SMA and ALS, with a loss of neuronal innervation and shrinkage
of motor endplates in both diseases. Thus, the pattern of selective vulnerability
was conserved across these two models of motor neuron disease. However, the first
evidence of neuromuscular pathology occurred at different timepoints of disease
progression, with much earlier evidence of presynaptic involvement in ALS,
progressing to changes on the postsynaptic side. Conversely, in SMA changes
appeared concomitantly at the neuromuscular junction, suggesting that mechanisms 
of neuromuscular disruption are distinct in these diseases. J. Comp. Neurol.,
2015. © 2015 The Authors The Journal of Comparative Neurology Published by Wiley 
Periodicals, Inc.

© 2015 The Authors The Journal of Comparative Neurology Published by Wiley
Periodicals, Inc.

PMID: 26502195  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1. Front Cell Neurosci. 2015 Oct 6;9:391. doi: 10.3389/fncel.2015.00391. eCollection
2015.

Homocysteine aggravates ROS-induced depression of transmitter release from motor 
nerve terminals: potential mechanism of peripheral impairment in motor neuron
diseases associated with hyperhomocysteinemia.

Bukharaeva E(1), Shakirzyanova A(2), Khuzakhmetova V(3), Sitdikova G(4),
Giniatullin R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Kazan Federal University Kazan, Russia ; A. I.
Virtanen Institute for Molecular Sciences, Department of Neurobiology, University
of Eastern Finland Kuopio, Finland ; Kazan Institute of Biochemistry and
Biophysics Kazan, Russia. (2)Department of Physiology, Kazan Federal University
Kazan, Russia ; A. I. Virtanen Institute for Molecular Sciences, Department of
Neurobiology, University of Eastern Finland Kuopio, Finland. (3)Department of
Physiology, Kazan Federal University Kazan, Russia ; Kazan Institute of
Biochemistry and Biophysics Kazan, Russia. (4)A. I. Virtanen Institute for
Molecular Sciences, Department of Neurobiology, University of Eastern Finland
Kuopio, Finland.

Homocysteine (HCY) is a pro-inflammatory sulphur-containing redox active
endogenous amino acid, which concentration increases in neurodegenerative
disorders including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). A widely held view
suggests that HCY could contribute to neurodegeneration via promotion of
oxidative stress. However, the action of HCY on motor nerve terminals has not
been investigated so far. We previously reported that oxidative stress inhibited 
synaptic transmission at the neuromuscular junction, targeting primarily the
motor nerve terminals. In the current study, we investigated the effect of HCY on
oxidative stress-induced impairment of transmitter release at the mouse diaphragm
muscle. The mild oxidant H2O2 decreased the intensity of spontaneous quantum
release from nerve terminals (measured as the frequency of miniature endplate
potentials, MEPPs) without changes in the amplitude of MEPPs, indicating a
presynaptic effect. Pre-treatment with HCY for 2 h only slightly affected both
amplitude and frequency of MEPPs but increased the inhibitory potency of H2O2
almost two fold. As HCY can activate certain subtypes of glutamate N-methyl
D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors we tested the role of NMDA receptors in the
sensitizing action of HCY. Remarkably, the selective blocker of NMDA receptors,
AP-5 completely removed the sensitizing effect of HCY on the H2O2-induced
presynaptic depressant effect. Thus, at the mammalian neuromuscular junction HCY 
largely increases the inhibitory effect of oxidative stress on transmitter
release, via NMDA receptors activation. This combined effect of HCY and local
oxidative stress can specifically contribute to the damage of presynaptic
terminals in neurodegenerative motoneuron diseases, including ALS.

PMCID: PMC4594498
PMID: 26500495  [PubMed]


1. Neurosci Lett. 2015 Nov 16;609:223-8. doi: 10.1016/j.neulet.2015.09.034. Epub
2015 Oct 21.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-associated mutant profilin 1 increases dendritic
arborisation and spine formation in primary hippocampal neurons.

Brettle M(1), Suchowerska AK(1), Chua SW(2), Ittner LM(3), Fath T(4).

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegeneration and Repair Unit, School of Medical Sciences, University of
New South Wales, Australia. (2)Dementia Research Unit, School of Medical
Sciences, University of New South Wales, Australia. (3)Dementia Research Unit,
School of Medical Sciences, University of New South Wales, Australia. Electronic 
address: l.ittner@unsw.edu.au. (4)Neurodegeneration and Repair Unit, School of
Medical Sciences, University of New South Wales, Australia. Electronic address:
t.fath@unsw.edu.au.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is the most common motor neuron disease and
familial ALS accounts for 10% of cases. The identification of familial ALS
mutations in the actin-binding protein profilin 1 directly implicates actin
dynamics and regulation in the pathogenesis of ALS. The mechanism by which these 
mutations cause ALS is unknown. In this study we show that expression of the
ALS-associated actin-binding deficient mutant of PFN1 (PFN1(C71G)) results in
increased dendritic arborisation and spine formation, and cytoplasmic inclusions 
in cultured mouse hippocampal neurons.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 26499959  [PubMed - in process]


1. J Vis Exp. 2015 Oct 6;(104). doi: 10.3791/53257.

A Quick Phenotypic Neurological Scoring System for Evaluating Disease Progression
in the SOD1-G93A Mouse Model of ALS.

Hatzipetros T(1), Kidd JD(2), Moreno AJ(2), Thompson K(2), Gill A(2), Vieira
FG(2).

Author information: 
(1)ALS Therapy Development Institute; thatzipetros@als.net. (2)ALS Therapy
Development Institute.

The SOD1-G93A transgenic mouse is the most widely used animal model of
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). At ALS TDI we developed a phenotypic
screening protocol, demonstrated in video herein, which reliably assesses the
neuromuscular function of SOD1-G93A mice in a quick manner. This protocol
encompasses a simple neurological scoring system (NeuroScore) designed to assess 
hindlimb function. NeuroScore is focused on hindlimb function because hindlimb
deficits are the earliest reported neurological sign of disease in SOD1-G93A
mice. The protocol developed by ALS TDI provides an unbiased assessment of onset 
of paresis (slight or partial paralysis), progression and severity of paralysis
and it is sensitive enough to identify drug-induced changes in disease
progression. In this report, the combination of a detailed manuscript with video 
minimizes scoring ambiguities and inter-experimenter variability thus allowing
for the protocol to be adopted by other laboratories and enabling comparisons
between studies taking place at different settings. We believe that this video
protocol can serve as an excellent training tool for present and future ALS
researchers.

PMID: 26485052  [PubMed - in process]


1. Genom Data. 2015 Feb 28;4:47-9. doi: 10.1016/j.gdata.2015.02.003. eCollection
2015.

Analytical sequence to study G-CSF effect on the transcriptome of isolated spinal
motoneurons from SOD1 G93A mice, an animal model for amyotrophic lateral
sclerosis.

Henriques A(1), Kastner S(2), Wafzig O(2), Gonzalez De Aguilar JL(1), Schneider
A(2).

Author information: 
(1)INSERM, U1118, Mécanismes Centraux et Péripheriques de la Neurodégénérescence,
Strasbourg, France ; UMRS1118, Fédération de Médecine Translationnelle de
Strasbourg, Université de Strasbourg, France. (2)Sygnis Bioscience GmbH & Co KG, 
Im Neuenheimer Feld 515, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany.

Granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) has been recently identified as a
neurotrophic factor able to preserve motor functions, rescue motor units and
extent survival in an animal model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, the SOD1
G93A mice. To gain insight into the mode of action of G-CSF, we have recently
performed gene expression profiling on isolated lumbar motoneurons from SOD1G93A 
mice, and shown that G-CSF re-adjusted gene expression in motoneurons of
symptomatic SOD1G93A mice and modulates genes related to neuromuscular function
(Henriques et al., 2015). Here, we provide quality controls for the microarray
experiment (GO accession number GSE60856) and describe the experimental strategy.

PMCID: PMC4535899
PMID: 26484174  [PubMed]


1. Hum Mol Genet. 2015 Dec 20;24(25):7390-405. doi: 10.1093/hmg/ddv439. Epub 2015
Oct 19.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and denervation alter sphingolipids and up-regulate
glucosylceramide synthase.

Henriques A(1), Croixmarie V(2), Priestman DA(3), Rosenbohm A(4), Dirrig-Grosch
S(1), D'Ambra E(1), Huebecker M(3), Hussain G(5), Boursier-Neyret C(2),
Echaniz-Laguna A(6), Ludolph AC(4), Platt FM(3), Walther B(2), Spedding M(7),
Loeffler JP(1), Gonzalez De Aguilar JL(8).

Author information: 
(1)Université de Strasbourg, UMR_S 1118, Strasbourg, France, INSERM, U1118,
Mécanismes Centraux et Péripheriques de la Neurodégénérescence, Strasbourg,
France. (2)Technologie Servier, Orleans, France. (3)Department of Pharmacology,
University of Oxford, Oxford, UK. (4)Department of Neurology, University of Ulm, 
Ulm, Germany. (5)Université de Strasbourg, UMR_S 1118, Strasbourg, France,
INSERM, U1118, Mécanismes Centraux et Péripheriques de la Neurodégénérescence,
Strasbourg, France, Department of Physiology, GC University, Faisalabad,
Pakistan. (6)Université de Strasbourg, UMR_S 1118, Strasbourg, France, INSERM,
U1118, Mécanismes Centraux et Péripheriques de la Neurodégénérescence,
Strasbourg, France, Hôpitaux Universitaires, Département de Neurologie,
Strasbourg, France. (7)Les Laboratoires Servier, Suresnes, France and Spedding
Research Solutions SARL, Le Vesinet, France. (8)Université de Strasbourg, UMR_S
1118, Strasbourg, France, INSERM, U1118, Mécanismes Centraux et Péripheriques de 
la Neurodégénérescence, Strasbourg, France, gonzalez@unistra.fr.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal adult-onset disease characterized 
by upper and lower motor neuron degeneration, muscle wasting and paralysis.
Growing evidence suggests a link between changes in lipid metabolism and ALS.
Here, we used UPLC/TOF-MS to survey the lipidome in SOD1(G86R) mice, a model of
ALS. Significant changes in lipid expression were evident in spinal cord and
skeletal muscle before overt neuropathology. In silico analysis also revealed
appreciable changes in sphingolipids including ceramides and glucosylceramides
(GlcCer). HPLC analysis showed increased amounts of GlcCer and downstream
glycosphingolipids (GSLs) in SOD1(G86R) muscle compared with wild-type
littermates. Glucosylceramide synthase (GCS), the enzyme responsible for GlcCer
biosynthesis, was up-regulated in muscle of SOD1(G86R) mice and ALS patients, and
in muscle of wild-type mice after surgically induced denervation. Conversely,
inhibition of GCS in wild-type mice, following transient peripheral nerve injury,
reversed the overexpression of genes in muscle involved in oxidative metabolism
and delayed motor recovery. GCS inhibition in SOD1(G86R) mice also affected the
expression of metabolic genes and induced a loss of muscle strength and
morphological deterioration of the motor endplates. These findings suggest that
GSLs may play a critical role in ALS muscle pathology and could lead to the
identification of new therapeutic targets.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press.

PMCID: PMC4664174
PMID: 26483191  [PubMed - in process]


1. Beijing Da Xue Xue Bao. 2015 Oct 18;47(5):733-6.

[Expression of microRNA-29b in mice with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis].

[Article in Chinese]

Yang Y(1), Cai B(1), Fan DS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Peking University Third Hospital, Beijing 100191,
China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate microRNA-29b (miR-29b) expression in cerebral cortex,
spinal cord, fore limb muscle, and serum of SOD1-G93A amyotrophic lateral
sclerosis (ALS) mice, and to identify the biomarker and to assess diagnostic
values for ALS.
METHODS: Cerebral cortex, spinal cord, fore limb muscle and serum from 16
SOD1-G93A ALS mice and 16 wild-type mice were taken and then microRNA extracted, 
detecting the expression of miR-29b by real-time quantitative polymerase chain
reaction (RT-qPCR). The diagnostic performance of miR-29b for ALS was estimated
by the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve.
RESULTS: The results from the validation indicated that the differences in
miR-29b between the cerebral cortex of SOD1-G93A ALS and the healthy control
subjects were statistically significant (P=0.001). Meanwhile, the expressions 8, 
12, and 16 weeks later were higher than those of the controls (ALS vs.
CONTROL: 8 weeks, P=0.044; 12 weeks, P=0.018; 16 weeks, P=0.045). When the
relative expression level of miR-29b was used to diagnose ALS in SOD1-G93A ALS
mice, the area under the ROC (area under the curve, AUC) was 0.885, if the
diagnostic threshold was set at 0.185 6, the sensitivity and specificity were
92.9% and 71.4%.
CONCLUSION: miR-29b may act as medical monitoring indices of ALS in early time.

PMID: 26474607  [PubMed - in process]


1. PLoS One. 2015 Oct 15;10(10):e0140316. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0140316.
eCollection 2015.

Edaravone, a Free Radical Scavenger, Delayed Symptomatic and Pathological
Progression of Motor Neuron Disease in the Wobbler Mouse.

Ikeda K(1), Iwasaki Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Toho University Omori Medical Center, Tokyo, Japan.

Edaravone, a free radical scavenger is used widely in Japanese patients with
acute cerebral infarction. This antioxidant could have therapeutic potentials for
other neurological diseases. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal
neurodegenerative disease that affects the upper and the lower motor neuron,
leading to death within 3-5 years after onset. A phase III clinical trial of
edaravone suggested no significant effects in ALS patients. However, recent 2nd
double-blind trial has demonstrated therapeutic benefits of edaravone in definite
patients diagnosed by revised El Escorial diagnostic criteria of ALS. Two
previous studies showed that edaravone attenuated motor symptoms or motor neuron 
degeneration in mutant superoxide dismutase 1-transgenic mice or rats, animal
models of familial ALS. Herein we examined whether this radical scavenger can
retard progression of motor dysfunction and neuropathological changes in wobbler 
mice, sporadic ALS-like model. After diagnosis of the disease onset at the
postnatal age of 3-4 weeks, wobbler mice received edaravone (1 or 10 mg/kg, n =
10/group) or vehicle (n = 10), daily for 4 weeks by intraperitoneal
administration. Motor symptoms and neuropathological changes were compared among 
three groups. Higher dose (10 mg/kg) of edaravone treatment significantly
attenuated muscle weakness and contracture in the forelimbs, and suppressed
denervation atrophy in the biceps muscle and degeneration in the cervical motor
neurons compared to vehicle. Previous and the present studies indicated
neuroprotective effects of edaravone in three rodent ALS-like models. This drug
seems to be worth performing the clinical trial in ALS patients in the United
States of American and Europe, in addition to Japan.

PMCID: PMC4607459
PMID: 26469273  [PubMed - in process]


1. Biomed Chromatogr. 2015 Sep 7. doi: 10.1002/bmc.3609. [Epub ahead of print]

Development of easy-to-use reverse-phase liquid chromatographic methods for
determining PRE-084, RC-33 and RC-34 in biological matrices. The first step for
in vivo analysis of sigma1 receptor agonists.

Marra A(1), Rossi D(1), Maggi L(1), Corana F(2), Mannucci B(2), Peviani M(3),
Curti D(3), Collina S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Drug Sciences, Medicinal Chemistry and Pharmaceutical Technology
section, University of Pavia, Viale Taramelli 12, 27100, Pavia, Italy. (2)Centro 
Grandi Strumenti, University of Pavia, Via bassi 21, 27100, Pavia, Italy.
(3)Department of Biology and Biotechnology 'L. Spallanzani', Laboratory of
Cellular and Molecular Neuropharmacology, University of Pavia, Via Ferrata 9,
27100, Pavia, Italy.

Over the years there has been a growing interest in the therapeutic potential for
central nervous system pathologies of sigma receptor modulators. The widely
studied PRE-084 and our compounds RC-33 and RC-34 are very potent and selective
sigma 1 receptor agonists that could represent promising drug candidates for
Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS). Herein, we develop and validate robust and
easy-to-use reverse-phase chromatographic methods suitable for detecting and
quantifying PRE-084, RC-33 and RC-34 in mouse blood, brain and spinal cord. An
HPLC/UV/ESI-MS system was employed for analyzing PRE-084 and an HPLC/UV-PDA
system for determining RC-33 and RC-34. Chromatographic separations were achieved
on Waters Symmetry RP18 column (150 × 3.9 mm, 5 µm), eluting with water and
acetonitrile (both containing 0.1% formic acid) in gradient conditions. The
recovery of PRE-084, RC-33 and RC-34 was >95% in all the considered matrices.
Their limits of quantitation and detection were also determined. Validation
proved the methods be suitable for separating tested compounds from endogenous
interferences, being characterized by good sensitivity, linearity, precision and 
accuracy. A preliminary central nervous system distribution study showed a high
distribution of RC-33 in brain and spinal cord, with concentration values well
above the determined limit of quantitation. The proposed methods will be used in 
future preclinical investigations. Copyright © 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Copyright © 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

PMID: 26447185  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1. Genetics. 2015 Oct;201(2):377-402. doi: 10.1534/genetics.115.179457.

Drosophila as an In Vivo Model for Human Neurodegenerative Disease.

McGurk L(1), Berson A(1), Bonini NM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19104. (2)Department of Biology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania 19104 nbonini@sas.upenn.edu.

With the increase in the ageing population, neurodegenerative disease is
devastating to families and poses a huge burden on society. The brain and spinal 
cord are extraordinarily complex: they consist of a highly organized network of
neuronal and support cells that communicate in a highly specialized manner. One
approach to tackling problems of such complexity is to address the scientific
questions in simpler, yet analogous, systems. The fruit fly, Drosophila
melanogaster, has been proven tremendously valuable as a model organism, enabling
many major discoveries in neuroscientific disease research. The plethora of
genetic tools available in Drosophila allows for exquisite targeted manipulation 
of the genome. Due to its relatively short lifespan, complex questions of brain
function can be addressed more rapidly than in other model organisms, such as the
mouse. Here we discuss features of the fly as a model for human neurodegenerative
disease. There are many distinct fly models for a range of neurodegenerative
diseases; we focus on select studies from models of polyglutamine disease and
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis that illustrate the type and range of insights that
can be gleaned. In discussion of these models, we underscore strengths of the fly
in providing understanding into mechanisms and pathways, as a foundation for
translational and therapeutic research.

Copyright © 2015 by the Genetics Society of America.

PMCID: PMC4596656 [Available on 2016-10-01]
PMID: 26447127  [PubMed - in process]


1. PLoS One. 2015 Oct 7;10(10):e0140248. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0140248.
eCollection 2015.

Inflammation Induces TDP-43 Mislocalization and Aggregation.

Correia AS(1), Patel P(2), Dutta K(2), Julien JP(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Québec, 2705
Boulevard Laurier, Québec, QC, G1V 4G2, Canada. (2)Research Centre of Institut
universitaire en santé mentale de Québec, Department of Psychiatry and
Neuroscience, Laval University, Québec, QC, Canada.

TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) is a major component in aggregates of
ubiquitinated proteins in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal 
lobar degeneration (FTLD). Here we report that lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced
inflammation can promote TDP-43 mislocalization and aggregation. In culture,
microglia and astrocytes exhibited TDP-43 mislocalization after exposure to LPS. 
Likewise, treatment of the motoneuron-like NSC-34 cells with TNF-alpha (TNF-α)
increased the cytoplasmic levels of TDP-43. In addition, the chronic
intraperitoneal injection of LPS at a dose of 1mg/kg in TDP-43A315T transgenic
mice exacerbated the pathological TDP-43 accumulation in the cytoplasm of spinal 
motor neurons and it enhanced the levels of TDP-43 aggregation. These results
suggest that inflammation may contribute to development or exacerbation of TDP-43
proteinopathies in neurodegenerative disorders.

PMCID: PMC4596857
PMID: 26444430  [PubMed - in process]


1. Spinal Cord. 2015 Oct 6. doi: 10.1038/sc.2015.162. [Epub ahead of print]

Construction of recombinant adenovirus containing picorna-viral 2A-peptide
sequence for the co-expression of neuro-protective growth factors in human
umbilical cord blood cells.

Garanina EE(1), Mukhamedshina YO(1), Salafutdinov II(1), Kiyasov AP(1), Lima
LM(2), Reis HJ(3), Palotás A(1,)(4), Islamov RR(5), Rizvanov AA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Kazan Federal University, Kazan, Russian Federation. (2)Universidade Federal
de Viçosa, Viçosa, Brazil. (3)Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo
Horizonte, Brazil. (4)Asklepios-Med (Private Medical Practice and Research
Center), Szeged, Hungary. (5)Kazan State Medical University, Kazan, Russian
Federation.

STUDY DESIGN: Experimental study.
OBJECTIVE: Several neuro-degenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's dementia,
Parkinson's disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) are associated with
genetic mutations, and replacing or disrupting defective sequences might offer
therapeutic benefits. Single gene delivery has so far failed to achieve
significant clinical improvements in humans, leading to the advent of
co-expression of multiple therapeutic genes. Co-transfection using two or more
individual constructs might inadvertently result in disproportionate delivery of 
the products into the cells. To prevent this, and in order to rule out
interference among the many promoters with varying strength, expressing multiple 
proteins in equimolar amounts can be achieved by linking open reading frames
under the control of only one promoter.
SETTING: Kazan, Russian Federation.
METHODS: Here we describe a strategy for adeno-viral co-expression of vascular
endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2)
interconnected through picorna-viral 2A-amino-acid sequence in transfected human 
umbilical cord blood mono-nuclear cells (hUCB-MCs).
RESULTS: Presence of both growth factors, as well as absence of immune response
to 2A-antigen, was demonstrated after 28-52 days. Following injection of hUCB-MCs
into ALS transgenic mice, co-expression of VEGF and FGF2, as well as viable
xeno-transplanted cells, were observed in the spinal cord after 1 month.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that recombinant adeno-virus containing
2A-sequences could serve as a promising alternative in regenerative medicine for 
the delivery of therapeutic molecules to treat neurodegenerative diseases, such
as ALS.Spinal Cord advance online publication, 6 October 2015;
doi:10.1038/sc.2015.162.

PMID: 26439843  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1. Acta Neuropathol. 2015 Nov;130(5):661-78. doi: 10.1007/s00401-015-1486-0. Epub
2015 Oct 5.

Short-term suppression of A315T mutant human TDP-43 expression improves
functional deficits in a novel inducible transgenic mouse model of FTLD-TDP and
ALS.

Ke YD(1,)(2), van Hummel A(1,)(2), Stevens CH(1), Gladbach A(1), Ippati S(1), Bi 
M(1), Lee WS(1), Krüger S(1), van der Hoven J(1), Volkerling A(1), Bongers A(3), 
Halliday G(4), Haass NK(5), Kiernan M(6), Delerue F(1,)(7), Ittner
LM(8,)(9,)(10).

Author information: 
(1)Dementia Research Unit, Department of Anatomy, Faculty of Medicine, School of 
Medical Sciences, UNSW Australia, Sydney, NSW, 2052, Australia. (2)Motor Neuron
Disease Unit, Department of Anatomy, Faculty of Medicine, School of Medical
Sciences, UNSW Australia, Sydney, NSW, 2052, Australia. (3)Biological Resources
Imaging Laboratory, Mark Wainwright Analytical Centre, UNSW Australia, Sydney,
NSW, 2052, Australia. (4)Neuroscience Research Australia, Sydney, NSW, 2036,
Australia. (5)The University of Queensland Diamantina Institute, Translational
Research Institute, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, 4102, Australia.
(6)Brain and Mind Research Institute, Faculty of Medicine, Sydney Medical School,
The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, 2050, Australia. (7)Transgenic Animal
Unit, Mark Wainwright Analytical Centre, UNSW Australia, Sydney, NSW, 2052,
Australia. (8)Dementia Research Unit, Department of Anatomy, Faculty of Medicine,
School of Medical Sciences, UNSW Australia, Sydney, NSW, 2052, Australia.
l.ittner@unsw.edu.au. (9)Neuroscience Research Australia, Sydney, NSW, 2036,
Australia. l.ittner@unsw.edu.au. (10)Transgenic Animal Unit, Mark Wainwright
Analytical Centre, UNSW Australia, Sydney, NSW, 2052, Australia.
l.ittner@unsw.edu.au.

The nuclear transactive response DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) undergoes
relocalization to the cytoplasm with formation of cytoplasmic deposits in neurons
in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal lobar degeneration
(FTLD). Pathogenic mutations in the TDP-43-encoding TARDBP gene in familial ALS
as well as non-mutant human TDP-43 have been utilized to model FTD/ALS in cell
culture and animals, including mice. Here, we report novel A315T mutant TDP-43
transgenic mice, iTDP-43 (A315T) , with controlled neuronal over-expression.
Constitutive expression of human TDP-43 (A315T) resulted in pronounced
early-onset and progressive neurodegeneration, which was associated with
compromised motor performance, spatial memory and disinhibition. Muscle atrophy
resulted in reduced grip strength. Cortical degeneration presented with
pronounced astrocyte activation. Using differential protein extraction from
iTDP-43 (A315T) brains, we found cytoplasmic localization, fragmentation,
phosphorylation and ubiquitination and insolubility of TDP-43. Surprisingly,
suppression of human TDP-43 (A315T) expression in mice with overt
neurodegeneration for only 1 week was sufficient to significantly improve motor
and behavioral deficits, and reduce astrogliosis. Our data suggest that
functional deficits in iTDP-43 (A315T) mice are at least in part a direct and
transient effect of the presence of TDP-43 (A315T) . Furthermore, it illustrates 
the compensatory capacity of compromised neurons once transgenic TDP-43 is
removed, with implications for future treatments.

PMID: 26437864  [PubMed - in process]


1. Sci Transl Med. 2015 Sep 30;7(307):307ra153. doi: 10.1126/scitranslmed.aac8201.

Human endogenous retrovirus-K contributes to motor neuron disease.

Li W(1), Lee MH(1), Henderson L(1), Tyagi R(1), Bachani M(2), Steiner J(2),
Campanac E(3), Hoffman DA(3), von Geldern G(1), Johnson K(4), Maric D(1), Morris 
HD(5), Lentz M(6), Pak K(7), Mammen A(7), Ostrow L(8), Rothstein J(8), Nath A(9).

Author information: 
(1)Section of Infections of the Nervous System, National Institute of
Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD
20892, USA. (2)Neurotherapeutics Unit, National Institute of Neurological
Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.
(3)Molecular Neurophysiology and Biophysics Section, Eunice Kennedy Shriver
National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, National Institutes of 
Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. (4)Bioinformatics Unit, National Institute of
Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD
21042, USA. (5)Mouse Imaging Facility, National Institute of Neurological
Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 21042, USA.
(6)Integrated Research Facility, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Disease, National Institutes of Health, Fort Detrick, Frederick, MD 21042, USA.
(7)Laboratory of Muscle Stem Cell and Gene Regulation, National Institute of
Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, MD 21042 , USA. (8)Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins University,
Baltimore, MD 28217, USA. (9)Section of Infections of the Nervous System,
National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of
Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. natha@ninds.nih.gov.

The role of human endogenous retroviruses (HERVs) in disease pathogenesis is
unclear. We show that HERV-K is activated in a subpopulation of patients with
sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and that its envelope (env) protein 
may contribute to neurodegeneration. The virus was expressed in cortical and
spinal neurons of ALS patients, but not in neurons from control healthy
individuals. Expression of HERV-K or its env protein in human neurons caused
retraction and beading of neurites. Transgenic animals expressing the env gene
developed progressive motor dysfunction accompanied by selective loss of volume
of the motor cortex, decreased synaptic activity in pyramidal neurons, dendritic 
spine abnormalities, nucleolar dysfunction, and DNA damage. Injury to anterior
horn cells in the spinal cord was manifested by muscle atrophy and pathological
changes consistent with nerve fiber denervation and reinnervation. Expression of 
HERV-K was regulated by TAR (trans-activation responsive) DNA binding protein 43,
which binds to the long terminal repeat region of the virus. Thus, HERV-K
expression within neurons of patients with ALS may contribute to
neurodegeneration and disease pathogenesis.

Copyright © 2015, American Association for the Advancement of Science.

PMID: 26424568  [PubMed - in process]


1. J Comp Neurol. 2015 Dec 1;523(17):Spc1. doi: 10.1002/cne.23906.

Degeneration of proprioceptive sensory nerve endings in mice harboring
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-causing mutations.

Vaughan SK(1,)(2), Kemp Z(1), Hatzipetros T(3), Vieira F(3), Valdez G(1,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Virginia Tech Carilion Research Institute, Virginia Tech, Roanoke, Virginia,
USA. (2)Graduate Program in Translational Biology, Medicine, and Health, Virginia
Tech, Blacksburg, Virginia, USA. (3)ALS Therapy Development Institute, Cambridge,
Massachusetts, 02139. (4)Department of Biological Sciences, Virginia Tech,
Blacksburg, Virginia, 24061.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disease that primarily
targets the motor system. Although much is known about the effects of ALS on
motor neurons and glial cells, little is known about its effect on proprioceptive
sensory neurons. This study examines proprioceptive sensory neurons in mice
harboring mutations associated with ALS, in SOD1(G93A) and TDP43(A315T)
transgenic mice. In both transgenic lines, we found fewer proprioceptive sensory 
neurons containing fluorescently tagged cholera toxin in their soma five days
after injecting this retrograde tracer into the tibialis anterior muscle. We
asked whether this is due to neuronal loss or selective degeneration of
peripheral nerve endings. We found no difference in the total number and size of 
proprioceptive sensory neuron soma between symptomatic SOD1(G93A) and control
mice. However, analysis of proprioceptive nerve endings in muscles revealed early
and significant alterations at Ia/II proprioceptive nerve endings in muscle
spindles before the symptomatic phase of the disease. Although these changes
occur alongside those at α-motor axons in SOD1(G93A) mice, Ia/II sensory nerve
endings degenerate in the absence of obvious alterations in α-motor axons in
TDP43(A315T) transgenic mice. We next asked whether proprioceptive nerve endings 
are similarly affected in the spinal cord and found that nerve endings
terminating on α-motor neurons are affected during the symptomatic phase and
after peripheral nerve endings begin to degenerate. Overall, we show that Ia/II
proprioceptive sensory neurons are affected by ALS-causing mutations, with
pathological changes starting at their peripheral nerve endings. J. Comp. Neurol.
523:2477-2494, 2015. © 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

PMID: 26424446  [PubMed - in process]


1. Exp Neurobiol. 2015 Sep;24(3):226-34. doi: 10.5607/en.2015.24.3.226. Epub 2015
Sep 9.

Modulation of SOD1 Subcellular Localization by Transfection with Wild- or
Mutant-type SOD1 in Primary Neuron and Astrocyte Cultures from ALS Mice.

Lee DY(1), Jeon GS(2), Shim YM(1), Seong SY(3), Lee KW(1), Sung JJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Seoul National University Hospital College of
Medicine, Seoul 03080, Korea. (2)Department of Neurology, Seoul National
University Hospital College of Medicine, Seoul 03080, Korea. ; Biomedical
Research Institute, Seoul National University Hospital College of Medicine, Seoul
03080, Korea. (3)Wide River Institute of Immunology, Department of Microbiology
and Immunology, Department of Biomedical Sciences, Seoul National University
College of Medicine, Seoul 03080, Korea.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurological disorder
characterized by selective degeneration of motor neurons. Mutant superoxide
dismutase 1 (SOD1) is often found as aggregates in the cytoplasm in motor neurons
of various mouse models and familial ALS patients. The interplay between motor
neurons and astrocytes is crucial for disease outcome, but the mechanisms
underlying this phenomenon remain unknown. In this study, we investigated whether
transient transfection with wild-type and mutant-type SOD1 may lead to
amplification of mutant SOD1-mediated toxicity in cortical neurons and astrocytes
derived from wild-type and mutant-type (human G93A-SOD1) mice. In transgenic mice
expressing either wild- or mutant-type SOD1, we found that green fluorescent
protein (GFP)-wtSOD1 was present in the cytoplasm and nuclei of wild-type
cortical neurons and astrocytes, whereas GFP-mutant SOD1 was mainly cytoplasmic
in wild- and mutant-type cortical neurons and astrocytes. These findings indicate
that intracellular propagation of misfolding of GFP-wt or mtSOD1 are possible
mediators of toxic processes involved in initiating mislocalization and
aggregation. Here, we provide evidence that cytoplasmic aggregates induce
apoptosis in G93A-SOD1 mouse cortical neurons and astrocytes and that the
toxicity of mutant SOD1 in astrocytes is similar to the pathological effects of
ALS on neurons in vitro. Collectively, our results indicate that mtSOD1 probably 
interacts with wtSOD1 via an unknown mechanism to produce augmented toxicity and 
may influence aggregate formation and apoptosis.

PMCID: PMC4580750
PMID: 26412972  [PubMed]


1. Front Cell Neurosci. 2015 Sep 1;9:341. doi: 10.3389/fncel.2015.00341. eCollection
2015.

Ultrastructural studies of ALS mitochondria connect altered function and
permeability with defects of mitophagy and mitochondriogenesis.

Ruffoli R(1), Bartalucci A(1), Frati A(2), Fornai F(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Translational Research and New Technologies in Medicine and
Surgery, University of Pisa Pisa, Italy. (2)I.R.C.C.S., Neuromed Pozzilli, Italy.
(3)Department of Translational Research and New Technologies in Medicine and
Surgery, University of Pisa Pisa, Italy ; I.R.C.C.S., Neuromed Pozzilli, Italy.

The key role of mitochondria in patients affected by amyotrophic lateral
sclerosis (ALS) is well documented by electron microscopy studies of motor
neurons within spinal cord and brainstem. Nonetheless, recent studies challenged 
the role of mitochondria placed within the cell body of motor neuron. In fact, it
was demonstrated that, despite preservation of mitochondria placed within this
compartment, there is no increase in the lifespan of transgenic mouse models of
ALS. Thus, the present mini-review comments on morphological findings of
mitochondrial alterations in ALS patients in connection with novel findings about
mitochondrial dynamics within various compartments of motor neurons. The latter
issue was recently investigated in relationship with altered calcium homeostasis 
and autophagy, which affect mitochondria in ALS. In fact, it was recently
indicated that a pathological mitophagy, mitochondriogenesis and calcium
homeostasis produce different ultrastructural effects within specific regions of 
motor neurons. This might explain why specific compartments of motor neurons
possess different thresholds to mitochondrial damage. In particular, it appears
that motor axons represent the most sensitive compartment which undergoes the
earliest and most severe alterations in the course of ALS. It is now evident that
altered calcium buffering is compartment-dependent, as well as mitophagy and
mitochondriogenesis. On the other hand, mitochondrial homeostasis strongly relies
on calcium handling, the removal of altered mitochondria through the autophagy
flux (mitophagy) and the biogenesis of novel mitochondria (mitochondriogenesis). 
Thus, recent findings related to altered calcium storage and impaired autophagy
flux in ALS may help to understand the occurrence of mitochondrial alterations as
a hallmark in ALS patients. At the same time, the compartmentalization of such
dysfunctions may be explained considering the compartments of calcium dynamics
and autophagy flux within motor neurons.

PMCID: PMC4555074
PMID: 26388731  [PubMed]


1. Neuroscience. 2015 Dec 3;310:38-50. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2015.09.027. Epub
2015 Sep 15.

Adverse effects of a SOD1-peptide immunotherapy on SOD1(G93A) mouse slow model of
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.

Sábado J(1), Casanovas A(1), Rodrigo H(1), Arqué G(1), Esquerda JE(2).

Author information: 
(1)Universitat de Lleida, Facultat de Medicina-IRBLLEIDA, Departament de Medicina
Experimental, Unitat de Neurobiologia Cel·lular, Avda Rovira Roure 80, 25198
Lleida, Catalonia, Spain. (2)Universitat de Lleida, Facultat de
Medicina-IRBLLEIDA, Departament de Medicina Experimental, Unitat de Neurobiologia
Cel·lular, Avda Rovira Roure 80, 25198 Lleida, Catalonia, Spain. Electronic
address: josep.esquerda@mex.udl.cat.

Previous reports from our lab had shown that some anti-purinergic receptor P2X4
antibodies cross-reacted with misfolded forms of mutant Cu/Zn superoxide
dismutase 1 (SOD1), linked to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS).
Cross-reactivity could be caused by the abnormal exposure of an epitope located
in the inner hydrophobic region of SOD1 that shared structural homology with the 
P2X4-immunizing peptide. We had previously raised antibodies against human SOD1
epitope mimicked by the P2X4 immunizing peptide. One of these antibodies, called 
AJ10, was able to recognize mutant/misfolded forms of ALS-linked mutant SOD1.
Here, we used the AJ10 antigen as a vaccine to target neurotoxic species of
mutant SOD1 in a slow mouse model of ALS. However, the obtained results showed no
improvement in life span, disease onset or weight loss in treated animals; we
observed an increased microglial neuroinflammatory response and high amounts of
misfolded SOD1 accumulated within spinal cord neurons after AJ10 immunization. An
increase of immunoglobulin G deposits was also found due to the treatment.
Finally, a significantly worse clinical evolution was displayed by an impairment 
on motor function as a consequence of AJ10 peptide immunization.

Copyright © 2015 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 26384962  [PubMed - in process]


1. PLoS One. 2015 Sep 16;10(9):e0138425. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0138425.
eCollection 2015.

Transforming Growth Factor Beta (TGF-β) Is a Muscle Biomarker of Disease
Progression in ALS and Correlates with Smad Expression.

Si Y(1), Kim S(2), Cui X(3), Zheng L(1), Oh SJ(2), Anderson T(2), AlSharabati
M(2), Kazamel M(2), Volpicelli-Daley L(2), Bamman MM(4), Yu S(3), King PH(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham,
Alabama, United States of America; Birmingham VA Medical Center, Birmingham,
Alabama, United States of America. (2)Department of Neurology, University of
Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama, United States of America.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, 
Alabama, United States of America. (4)Department of Cell, Developmental and
Integrative Biology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama,
United States of America. (5)Department of Neurology, University of Alabama at
Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama, United States of America; Birmingham VA Medical 
Center, Birmingham, Alabama, United States of America; Department of Cell,
Developmental and Integrative Biology, University of Alabama at Birmingham,
Birmingham, Alabama, United States of America; Department of Genetics, University
of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama, United States of America.

We recently identified Smads1, 5 and 8 as muscle biomarkers in human ALS. In the 
ALS mouse, these markers are elevated and track disease progression. Smads are
signal transducers and become activated upon receptor engagement of ligands from 
the TGF-β superfamily. Here, we sought to characterize ligands linked to
activation of Smads in ALS muscle and their role as biomarkers of disease
progression. RNA sequencing data of ALS muscle samples were mined for TGF-β
superfamily ligands. Candidate targets were validated by qRT-PCR in a large
cohort of human ALS muscle biopsy samples and in the G93A SOD1 mouse. Protein
expression was evaluated by Western blot, ELISA and immunohistochemistry. C2C12
muscle cells were used to assess Smad activation and induction. TGF-β1, 2 and 3
mRNAs were increased in ALS muscle samples compared to controls and correlated
with muscle strength and Smads1, 2, 5 and 8. In the G93A SOD1 mouse, the temporal
pattern of TGF-β expression paralleled the Smads and increased with disease
progression. TGF-β1 immunoreactivity was detected in mononuclear cells
surrounding muscle fibers in ALS samples. In muscle cells, TGF-β ligands were
capable of activating Smads. In conclusion, TGF-β1, 2 and 3 are novel biomarkers 
of ALS in skeletal muscle. Their correlation with weakness in human ALS and their
progressive increase with advancing disease in the ALS mouse suggest that they,
as with the Smads, can track disease progression. These ligands are capable of
upregulating and activating Smads and thus may contribute to the Smad signaling
pathway in ALS muscle.

PMCID: PMC4574401
PMID: 26375954  [PubMed - in process]


1. Am J Pathol. 2015 Nov;185(11):3053-65. doi: 10.1016/j.ajpath.2015.07.016. Epub
2015 Sep 9.

Microglial Keratan Sulfate Epitope Elicits in Central Nervous Tissues of
Transgenic Model Mice and Patients with Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis.

Foyez T(1), Takeda-Uchimura Y(1), Ishigaki S(2), Narentuya(1), Zhang Z(1), Sobue 
G(2), Kadomatsu K(3), Uchimura K(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Nagoya University Graduate School of Medicine,
Nagoya, Japan. (2)Department of Neurology, Nagoya University Graduate School of
Medicine, Nagoya, Japan. (3)Department of Biochemistry, Nagoya University
Graduate School of Medicine, Nagoya, Japan. Electronic address:
kkadoma@med.nagoya-u.ac.jp. (4)Department of Biochemistry, Nagoya University
Graduate School of Medicine, Nagoya, Japan. Electronic address:
arumihcu@med.nagoya-u.ac.jp.

The functional role of 5D4 antibody-reactive keratan sulfate (KS) in the
pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases is unknown. We therefore studied the
expression of 5D4-reactive KS in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), a motor
neuron-degenerative disease, with the use of SOD1(G93A) ALS model mice and
patients with ALS. Histochemical and immunoelectron microscopic characterizations
showed that the 5D4-reactive KS is expressed in Mac2/galectin-3-positive
activated or proliferating microglia of SOD1(G93A) ALS model mice at disease end 
stage and that the KS is an O-linked glycan modified with sialic acid and fucose,
which was thus far shown to exist in cartilage. Intriguingly, microglial KS was
detected in the spinal cord and brainstem but not in the cerebral cortex of
SOD1(G93A) mice. We found that KSGal6ST, a galactose-6-sulfotransferase, is
required for biosynthesis of the microglial 5D4-reactive KS by generating
SOD1(G93A)/KSGal6ST(-/-) mice. The requirement of GlcNAc6ST1 for this synthesis
was corroborated by analyzing SOD1(G93A)/GlcNAc6ST1(-/-) mice. These results
indicate that both galactose-6- and N acteylglucosamine-6-sulfated KS elicited in
the spinal cord and brainstem are associated with the degeneration of spinal and 
bulbar lower motor neurons in ALS pathology and may play a role in
disease progression via microglial activation and proliferation.

Copyright © 2015 American Society for Investigative Pathology. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 26362733  [PubMed - in process]


1. Neurodegener Dis. 2015;15(6):339-49. doi: 10.1159/000437208. Epub 2015 Sep 12.

Uncoupling of Protein Aggregation and Neurodegeneration in a Mouse Amyotrophic
Lateral Sclerosis Model.

Lee JY(1), Kawaguchi Y, Li M, Kapur M, Choi SJ, Kim HJ, Park SY, Zhu H, Yao TP.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Analytical Science and Technology (GRAST), Chungnam
National University, Daejeon, Republic of Korea.

Aberrant accumulation of protein aggregates is a pathological hallmark of many
neurodegenerative diseases, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS).
Although a buildup of protein aggregates frequently leads to cell death, whether 
it is the key pathogenic factor in driving neurodegenerative disease remains
controversial. HDAC6, a cytosolic ubiquitin-binding deacetylase, has emerged as
an important regulator of ubiquitin-dependent quality control autophagy, a
lysosome-dependent degradative system responsible for the disposal of misfolded
protein aggregates and damaged organelles. Here, we show that in cell models
HDAC6 plays a protective role against multiple disease-associated and
aggregation-prone cytosolic proteins by facilitating their degradation. We
further show that HDAC6 is required for efficient localization of lysosomes to
protein aggregates, indicating that lysosome targeting to autophagic substrates
is regulated. Supporting a critical role of HDAC6 in protein aggregate disposal
in vivo, genetic ablation of HDAC6 in a transgenic SOD1G93A mouse, a model of
ALS, leads to dramatic accumulation of ubiquitinated SOD1G93A protein aggregates.
Surprisingly, despite a robust buildup of SOD1G93A aggregates, deletion of HDAC6 
only moderately modified the motor phenotypes. These findings indicate that
SOD1G93A aggregation is not the only determining factor to drive
neurodegeneration in ALS, and that HDAC6 likely modulates neurodegeneration
through additional mechanisms beyond protein aggregate clearance.

© 2015 S. Karger AG, Basel.

PMID: 26360702  [PubMed - in process]


1. Front Cell Neurosci. 2015 Sep 1;9:332. doi: 10.3389/fncel.2015.00332. eCollection
2015.

Dysregulated expression of death, stress and mitochondrion related genes in the
sciatic nerve of presymptomatic SOD1(G93A) mouse model of Amyotrophic Lateral
Sclerosis.

Alves CJ(1), Maximino JR(1), Chadi G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Neuroregeneration Center, University of São Paulo
School of Medicine São Paulo, Brazil.

Schwann cells are the main source of paracrine support to motor neurons.
Oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction have been correlated to motor
neuron death in Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS). Despite the involvement of
Schwann cells in early neuromuscular disruption in ALS, detailed molecular events
of a dying-back triggering are unknown. Sciatic nerves of presymptomatic
(60-day-old) SOD1(G93A) mice were submitted to a high-density oligonucleotide
microarray analysis. DAVID demonstrated the deregulated genes related to death,
stress and mitochondrion, which allowed the identification of Cell cycle, ErbB
signaling, Tryptophan metabolism and Rig-I-like receptor signaling as the most
representative KEGG pathways. The protein-protein interaction networks based upon
deregulated genes have identified the top hubs (TRAF2, H2AFX, E2F1, FOXO3, MSH2, 
NGFR, TGFBR1) and bottlenecks (TRAF2, E2F1, CDKN1B, TWIST1, FOXO3). Schwann cells
were enriched from the sciatic nerve of presymptomatic mice using flow cytometry 
cell sorting. qPCR showed the up regulated (Ngfr, Cdnkn1b, E2f1, Traf2 and Erbb3,
H2afx, Cdkn1a, Hspa1, Prdx, Mapk10) and down-regulated (Foxo3, Mtor) genes in the
enriched Schwann cells. In conclusion, molecular analyses in the presymptomatic
sciatic nerve demonstrated the involvement of death, oxidative stress, and
mitochondrial pathways in the Schwann cell non-autonomous mechanisms in the early
stages of ALS.

PMCID: PMC4555015
PMID: 26339226  [PubMed]


1. Purinergic Signal. 2015 Dec;11(4):471-80. doi: 10.1007/s11302-015-9465-4. Epub
2015 Sep 3.

Presymptomatic and symptomatic ALS SOD1(G93A) mice differ in adenosine A1 and A2A
receptor-mediated tonic modulation of neuromuscular transmission.

Nascimento F(1,)(2,)(3), Sebastião AM(1,)(2), Ribeiro JA(4,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pharmacology and Neurosciences, Faculty of Medicine, University
of Lisbon, Av. Prof. Egas Moniz, 1649-028, Lisbon, Portugal. (2)Unit of
Neurosciences, Institute of Molecular Medicine, University of Lisbon, Av. Prof.
Egas Moniz, 1649-028, Lisbon, Portugal. (3)Neuronal Control of Movement Lab,
School of Psychology and Neuroscience, University of St Andrews, St Andrews,
Fife, KY18, 9LB, Scotland. (4)Institute of Pharmacology and Neurosciences,
Faculty of Medicine, University of Lisbon, Av. Prof. Egas Moniz, 1649-028,
Lisbon, Portugal. jaribeiro@medicina.ulisboa.pt. (5)Unit of Neurosciences,
Institute of Molecular Medicine, University of Lisbon, Av. Prof. Egas Moniz,
1649-028, Lisbon, Portugal. jaribeiro@medicina.ulisboa.pt.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a disease leading to neuromuscular
transmission impairment. A2A adenosine receptor (A2AR) function changes with
disease stage, but the role of the A1 receptors (A1Rs) is unknown and may have a 
functional cross-talk with A2AR. The role of A1R in the SOD1(G93A) mouse model of
ALS in presymptomatic (4-6 weeks old) and symptomatic (12-14 weeks old) phases
was investigated by recording endplate potentials (EPPs), miniature endplate
potentials (MEPPs), and quantal content (q.c.) of EPPs, from Mg(2+) paralyzed
hemidiaphragm preparations. In presymptomatic mice, the A1R agonist, N
(6)-cyclopentyladenosine (CPA) (50 nM), decreased mean EPP amplitude, MEPP
frequency, and q.c. of EPPs, an effect quantitatively similar to that in
age-matched wild-type (WT) mice. However, coactivation of A2AR with CGS 21680
(5 nM) prevented the effects of CPA in WT mice but not in presymptomatic
SOD1(G93A) mice, suggestive of A1R/A2AR cross-talk disruption in this phase of
ALS. DPCPX (50 nM) impaired CGS 21680 facilitatory action on neuromuscular
transmission in WT but not in presymptomatic mice. In symptomatic animals, CPA
only inhibited transmission if added in the presence of adenosine deaminase (ADA,
1 U/mL). ADA and DPCPX enhanced more transmission in symptomatic mice than in
age-matched WT mice, suggestive of increase in extracellular adenosine during the
symptomatic phase of ALS. The data documents that at the neuromuscular junction
of presymptomatic SOD1(G93A) mice, there is a loss of A1R-A2AR functional
cross-talk, while in symptomatic mice there is increased A1R tonic activation,
and that with disease progression, changes in A1R-mediated adenosine modulation
may act as aggravating factors during the symptomatic phase of ALS.

PMCID: PMC4648802 [Available on 2016-03-03]
PMID: 26335190  [PubMed - in process]


1. EMBO J. 2015 Nov 3;34(21):2633-51. doi: 10.15252/embj.201490493. Epub 2015 Sep 1.

Dysregulated miRNA biogenesis downstream of cellular stress and ALS-causing
mutations: a new mechanism for ALS.

Emde A(1), Eitan C(1), Liou LL(2), Libby RT(3), Rivkin N(1), Magen I(1),
Reichenstein I(1), Oppenheim H(1), Eilam R(4), Silvestroni A(2), Alajajian B(2), 
Ben-Dov IZ(5), Aebischer J(6), Savidor A(7), Levin Y(7), Sons R(8), Hammond
SM(8), Ravits JM(9), Möller T(2), Hornstein E(10).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot,
Israel. (2)Department of Neurology, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA, USA. (3)Translational Research Program, Benaroya Research Institute 
at Virginia Mason, Seattle, WA, USA. (4)Veterinary Resources, Weizmann Institute 
of Science, Rehovot, Israel. (5)Nephrology Department, Hadassah - Hebrew
University Medical Center, Jerusalem, Israel. (6)Brain Mind Institute, École
Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland. (7)de Botton Institute
for Protein Profiling, The Nancy and Stephen Grand Israel National Center for
Personalized Medicine, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, Israel.
(8)Department of Cell Biology and Physiology, School of Medicine, University of
North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC, USA. (9)Translational Research Program, Benaroya
Research Institute at Virginia Mason, Seattle, WA, USA Department of
Neurosciences, UC San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA jravits@ucsd.edu
eran.hornstein@weizmann.ac.il. (10)Department of Molecular Genetics, Weizmann
Institute of Science, Rehovot, Israel jravits@ucsd.edu
eran.hornstein@weizmann.ac.il.

Interest in RNA dysfunction in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) recently
aroused upon discovering causative mutations in RNA-binding protein genes. Here, 
we show that extensive down-regulation of miRNA levels is a common molecular
denominator for multiple forms of human ALS. We further demonstrate that
pathogenic ALS-causing mutations are sufficient to inhibit miRNA biogenesis at
the Dicing step. Abnormalities of the stress response are involved in the
pathogenesis of neurodegeneration, including ALS. Accordingly, we describe a
novel mechanism for modulating microRNA biogenesis under stress, involving stress
granule formation and re-organization of DICER and AGO2 protein interactions with
their partners. In line with this observation, enhancing DICER activity by a
small molecule, enoxacin, is beneficial for neuromuscular function in two
independent ALS mouse models. Characterizing miRNA biogenesis downstream of the
stress response ties seemingly disparate pathways in neurodegeneration and
further suggests that DICER and miRNAs affect neuronal integrity and are possible
therapeutic targets.

© 2015 The Authors.

PMCID: PMC4641530 [Available on 2016-11-03]
PMID: 26330466  [PubMed - in process]


1. Nat Neurosci. 2015 Sep;18(9):1226-9. doi: 10.1038/nn.4085.

Modifiers of C9orf72 dipeptide repeat toxicity connect nucleocytoplasmic
transport defects to FTD/ALS.

Jovičić A(1), Mertens J(2), Boeynaems S(3,)(4), Bogaert E(3,)(4), Chai N(1,)(5), 
Yamada SB(1,)(6), Paul JW 3rd(1), Sun S(7), Herdy JR(2), Bieri G(1,)(5), Kramer
NJ(1,)(5), Gage FH(2), Van Den Bosch L(3,)(4), Robberecht W(3,)(4,)(8), Gitler
AD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford,
California, USA. (2)Salk Institute for Biological Studies, Sanford Consortium for
Regenerative Medicine, La Jolla, California, USA. (3)KU Leuven-University of
Leuven, Department of Neurosciences, Experimental Neurology and Leuven Research
Institute for Neuroscience and Disease (LIND), Leuven, Belgium. (4)Vlaams
Instituut voor Biotechnologie (VIB), Vesalius Research Center, Laboratory of
Neurobiology, Leuven, Belgium. (5)Neurosciences Graduate Program, Stanford
University School of Medicine, Stanford, California, USA. (6)Department of
Biology, Stanford University, Stanford, California, USA. (7)Ludwig Institute for 
Cancer Research, Departments of Cellular and Molecular Medicine and of
Neurosciences, University of California at San Diego, La Jolla, California, USA. 
(8)University Hospitals Leuven, Department of Neurology, Leuven, Belgium.

C9orf72 mutations are the most common cause of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis
(ALS) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD). Dipeptide repeat proteins (DPRs)
produced by unconventional translation of the C9orf72 repeat expansions cause
neurodegeneration in cell culture and in animal models. We performed two unbiased
screens in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and identified potent modifiers of DPR
toxicity, including karyopherins and effectors of Ran-mediated nucleocytoplasmic 
transport, providing insight into potential disease mechanisms and therapeutic
targets.

PMCID: PMC4552077 [Available on 2016-02-26]
PMID: 26308983  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. PLoS One. 2015 Aug 25;10(8):e0135525. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0135525.
eCollection 2015.

Age-Related Changes in Pre- and Postsynaptic Partners of the Cholinergic
C-Boutons in Wild-Type and SOD1G93A Lumbar Motoneurons.

Milan L(1), Courtand G(1), Cardoit L(1), Masmejean F(1), Barrière G(1), Cazalets 
JR(1), Garret M(1), Bertrand SS(1).

Author information: 
(1)INCIA, Université de Bordeaux, CNRS UMR5287, Bordeaux, France.

Large cholinergic synaptic terminals known as C-boutons densely innervate the
soma and proximal dendrites of motoneurons that are prone to neurodegeneration in
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Studies using the Cu/Zn-superoxide dismutase
(SOD1) mouse model of ALS have generated conflicting data regarding C-bouton
alterations exhibited during ALS pathogenesis. In the present work, a
longitudinal study combining immunohistochemistry, biochemical approaches and
extra- and intra-cellular electrophysiological recordings revealed that the whole
spinal cholinergic system is modified in the SOD1 mouse model of ALS compared to 
wild type (WT) mice as early as the second postnatal week. In WT motoneurons,
both C-bouton terminals and associated M2 postsynaptic receptors presented a
complex age-related dynamic that appeared completely disrupted in SOD1
motoneurons. Indeed, parallel to C-bouton morphological alterations, analysis of 
confocal images revealed a clustering process of M2 receptors during WT
motoneuron development and maturation that was absent in SOD1 motoneurons. Our
data demonstrated for the first time that the lamina X cholinergic interneurons, 
the neuronal source of C-boutons, are over-abundant in high lumbar segments in
SOD1 mice and are subject to neurodegeneration in the SOD1 animal model. Finally,
we showed that early C-bouton system alterations have no physiological impact on 
the cholinergic neuromodulation of newborn motoneurons. Altogether, these data
suggest a complete reconfiguration of the spinal cholinergic system in SOD1
spinal networks that could be part of the compensatory mechanisms established
during spinal development.

PMCID: PMC4549056
PMID: 26305672  [PubMed - in process]


1. Acta Neuropathol. 2015 Nov;130(5):679-97. doi: 10.1007/s00401-015-1468-2. Epub
2015 Aug 23.

Rab1-dependent ER-Golgi transport dysfunction is a common pathogenic mechanism in
SOD1, TDP-43 and FUS-associated ALS.

Soo KY(1), Halloran M(1,)(2), Sundaramoorthy V(1,)(2), Parakh S(1,)(2), Toth
RP(2), Southam KA(3), McLean CA(4,)(5), Lock P(1), King A(6), Farg MA(1), Atkin
JD(7,)(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Genetics, La Trobe Institute for Molecular
Science, La Trobe University, Kingsbury Drive, Bundoora, VIC, Australia.
(2)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine and Health Science,
Macquarie University, North Ryde, NSW, Australia. (3)Menzies Research Institute
Tasmania, University of Tasmania, Hobart, TAS, Australia. (4)Department of
Anatomical Pathology, Alfred Hospital, Prahran, VIC, Australia. (5)Department of 
Medicine, Central Clinical School, Monash University, Clayton, VIC, Australia.
(6)Wicking Dementia Research and Education Centre, University of Tasmania,
Hobart, TAS, Australia. (7)Department of Biochemistry and Genetics, La Trobe
Institute for Molecular Science, La Trobe University, Kingsbury Drive, Bundoora, 
VIC, Australia. julie.atkin@mq.edu.au. (8)Department of Biomedical Sciences,
Faculty of Medicine and Health Science, Macquarie University, North Ryde, NSW,
Australia. julie.atkin@mq.edu.au.

Several diverse proteins are linked genetically/pathologically to
neurodegeneration in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) including SOD1, TDP-43
and FUS. Using a variety of cellular and biochemical techniques, we demonstrate
that ALS-associated mutant TDP-43, FUS and SOD1 inhibit protein transport between
the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and Golgi apparatus in neuronal cells. ER-Golgi
transport was also inhibited in embryonic cortical and motor neurons obtained
from a widely used animal model (SOD1(G93A) mice), validating this mechanism as
an early event in disease. Each protein inhibited transport by distinct
mechanisms, but each process was dependent on Rab1. Mutant TDP-43 and mutant FUS 
both inhibited the incorporation of secretory protein cargo into COPII vesicles
as they bud from the ER, and inhibited transport from ER to the ER-Golgi
intermediate (ERGIC) compartment. TDP-43 was detected on the cytoplasmic face of 
the ER membrane, whereas FUS was present within the ER, suggesting that transport
is inhibited from the cytoplasm by mutant TDP-43, and from the ER by mutant FUS. 
In contrast, mutant SOD1 destabilised microtubules and inhibited transport from
the ERGIC compartment to Golgi, but not from ER to ERGIC. Rab1 performs multiple 
roles in ER-Golgi transport, and over-expression of Rab1 restored ER-Golgi
transport, and prevented ER stress, mSOD1 inclusion formation and induction of
apoptosis, in cells expressing mutant TDP-43, FUS or SOD1. Rab1 also co-localised
extensively with mutant TDP-43, FUS and SOD1 in neuronal cells, and Rab1 formed
inclusions in motor neurons of spinal cords from sporadic ALS patients, which
were positive for ubiquitinated TDP-43, implying that Rab1 is misfolded and
dysfunctional in sporadic disease. These results demonstrate that ALS-mutant
forms of TDP-43, FUS, and SOD1 all perturb protein transport in the early
secretory pathway, between ER and Golgi compartments. These data also imply that 
restoring Rab1-mediated ER-Golgi transport is a novel therapeutic target in ALS.

PMID: 26298469  [PubMed - in process]


1. Autophagy. 2015 Oct 3;11(10):1934-6. doi: 10.1080/15548627.2015.1084460.

Progressive endolysosomal deficits impair autophagic clearance beginning at early
asymptomatic stages in fALS mice.

Xie Y(1), Zhou B(1), Lin MY(1), Sheng ZH(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Synaptic Functions Section; The Porter Neuroscience Research Center;
National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke; National Institutes of
Health ; Bethesda , MD USA.

Autophagy is an important homeostatic process that functions by eliminating
defective organelles and aggregated proteins over a neuron's lifetime. One
pathological hallmark in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)-linked motor neurons
(MNs) is axonal accumulation of autophagic vacuoles (AVs), thus raising a
fundamental question as to whether reduced autophagic clearance due to an
impaired lysosomal system contributes to autophagic stress and axonal
degeneration. We recently revealed progressive lysosomal deficits in spinal MNs
beginning at early asymptomatic stages in fALS-linked mice expressing the human
(Hs) SOD1(G93A) protein. Such deficits impair the degradation of AVs engulfing
damaged mitochondria from distal axons. These early pathological changes are
attributable to mutant HsSOD1, which interferes with dynein-driven endolysosomal 
trafficking. Elucidation of this pathological mechanism is broadly relevant,
because autophagy-lysosomal deficits are associated with several major
neurodegenerative diseases. Therefore, enhancing autophagic clearance by rescuing
endolysosomal trafficking may be a potential therapeutic strategy for ALS and
perhaps other neurodegenerative diseases.

PMID: 26290961  [PubMed - in process]


1. J Neurosci. 2015 Aug 19;35(33):11514-31. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.5288-14.2015.

Ubiquitin-Synaptobrevin Fusion Protein Causes Degeneration of Presynaptic Motor
Terminals in Mice.

Liu Y(1), Li H(1), Sugiura Y(1), Han W(2), Gallardo G(1), Khvotchev M(1), Zhang
Y(1), Kavalali ET(1), Südhof TC(3), Lin W(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, UT Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, Texas
75390. (2)Department of Neuroscience, UT Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas,
Texas 75390, Laboratory of Metabolic Medicine, Singapore Bioimaging Consortium,
A*STAR, Singapore 138667, and. (3)Department of Neuroscience, UT Southwestern
Medical Center, Dallas, Texas 75390, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Stanford
University School of Medicine, Palo Alto, California 94304. (4)Department of
Neuroscience, UT Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, Texas 75390,
Weichun.Lin@UTSouthwestern.edu.

Protein aggregates containing ubiquitin (Ub) are commonly observed in
neurodegenerative disorders, implicating the involvement of the ubiquitin
proteasome system (UPS) in their pathogenesis. Here, we aimed to generate a mouse
model for monitoring UPS function using a green fluorescent protein (GFP)-based
substrate that carries a "noncleavable" N-terminal ubiquitin moiety (Ub(G76V)).
We engineered transgenic mice expressing a fusion protein, consisting of the
following: (1) Ub(G76V), GFP, and a synaptic vesicle protein synaptobrevin-2
(Ub(G76V)-GFP-Syb2); (2) GFP-Syb2; or (3) Ub(G76V)-GFP-Syntaxin1, all under the
control of a neuron-specific Thy-1 promoter. As expected, Ub(G76V)-GFP-Syb2,
GFP-Syb2, and Ub(G76V)-GFP-Sytaxin1 were highly expressed in neurons, such as
motoneurons and motor nerve terminals of the neuromuscular junction (NMJ).
Surprisingly, Ub(G76V)-GFP-Syb2 mice developed progressive adult-onset
degeneration of motor nerve terminals, whereas GFP-Syb2 and
Ub(G76V)-GFP-Syntaxin1 mice were normal. The degeneration of nerve terminals in
Ub(G76V)-GFP-Syb2 mice was preceded by a progressive impairment of synaptic
transmission at the NMJs. Biochemical analyses demonstrated that
Ub(G76V)-GFP-Syb2 interacted with SNAP-25 and Syntaxin1, the SNARE partners of
synaptobrevin. Ultrastructural analyses revealed a marked reduction in synaptic
vesicle density, accompanying an accumulation of tubulovesicular structures at
presynaptic nerve terminals. These morphological defects were largely restricted 
to motor nerve terminals, as the ultrastructure of motoneuron somata appeared to 
be normal at the stages when synaptic nerve terminals degenerated. Furthermore,
synaptic vesicle endocytosis and membrane trafficking were impaired in
Ub(G76V)-GFP-Syb2 mice. These findings indicate that Ub(G76V)-GFP-Syb2 may
compete with endogenous synaptobrevin, acting as a gain-of-function mutation that
impedes SNARE function, resulting in the depletion of synaptic vesicles and
degeneration of the nerve terminals.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: Degeneration of motor
nerve terminals occurs in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) patients as well as
in mouse models of ALS, leading to progressive paralysis. What causes a motor
nerve terminal to degenerate remains unknown. Here we report on transgenic mice
expressing a ubiquitinated synaptic vesicle protein (Ub(G76V)-GFP-Syb2) that
develop progressive degeneration of motor nerve terminals. These mice may serve
as a model for further elucidating the underlying cellular and molecular
mechanisms of presynaptic nerve terminal degeneration.

Copyright © 2015 the authors 0270-6474/15/3511514-18$15.00/0.

PMCID: PMC4540793 [Available on 2016-02-19]
PMID: 26290230  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. PLoS One. 2015 Aug 19;10(8):e0135570. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0135570.
eCollection 2015.

Guanabenz Treatment Accelerates Disease in a Mutant SOD1 Mouse Model of ALS.

Vieira FG(1), Ping Q(1), Moreno AJ(1), Kidd JD(1), Thompson K(1), Jiang B(1),
Lincecum JM(1), Wang MZ(1), De Zutter GS(1), Tassinari VR(1), Levine B(1),
Hatzipetros T(1), Gill A(1), Perrin S(1).

Author information: 
(1)ALS Therapy Development Institute, Cambridge, Massachusetts, United States of 
America.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease
characterized by loss of motor neurons. The mechanisms leading to motor neuron
degeneration in ALS are unclear. However, there is evidence for involvement of
endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and the unfolded protein response (UPR) in ALS,
notably in mutant SOD1 mediated models of ALS. Stress induced phosphorylation of 
the eIF2 alpha subunit by eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2-alpha kinase
3 Perk activates the UPR. Guanabenz is a centrally acting alpha2 adrenergic
receptor agonist shown to interact with a regulatory subunit of the protein
phosphatase, Pp1/Gadd34, and selectively disrupt the dephosphorylation of the
alpha subunit of eukaryotic initiation factor 2 (eif2alpha). Here we demonstrate 
that guanabenz is protective in fibroblasts expressing G93A mutant SOD1 when they
are exposed to tunicamycin mediated ER stress. However, in contrast to other
reports, guanabenz treatment accelerated ALS-like disease progression in a strain
of mutant SOD1 transgenic ALS mice. This study highlights challenges of
pharmacological interventions of cellular stress responses in whole animal models
of ALS.

PMCID: PMC4545826
PMID: 26288094  [PubMed - in process]


1. JAMA Neurol. 2015 Oct 1;72(10):1155-62. doi: 10.1001/jamaneurol.2015.1584.

Effect of Presymptomatic Body Mass Index and Consumption of Fat and Alcohol on
Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis.

Huisman MH(1), Seelen M(1), van Doormaal PT(1), de Jong SW(1), de Vries JH(2),
van der Kooi AJ(3), de Visser M(3), Schelhaas HJ(4), van den Berg LH(1), Veldink 
JH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Rudolf Magnus Brain Centre, University Medical Centre
Utrecht, Utrecht, the Netherlands. (2)Division of Human Nutrition, Wageningen
University, Wageningen, the Netherlands. (3)Department of Neurology, Amsterdam
Medical Centre, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(4)Department of Neurology, Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition, and
Behaviour, Centre for Neuroscience, Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Centre,
Nijmegen, the Netherlands.

IMPORTANCE: Because dietary intake may influence pathophysiologic mechanisms in
sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), the association between premorbid
dietary intake and the risk of sporadic ALS will provide insight into which
mechanisms are possibly involved in ALS pathophogenesis.
OBJECTIVE: To systematically determine the association between premorbid dietary 
intake and the risk of sporadic ALS.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: A population-based case-control study was
conducted in a general community setting in the Netherlands from January 1, 2006,
to September 30, 2011. Analysis was conducted April 1, 2013, to November 15,
2014. All patients with a new diagnosis of possible, probable (laboratory
supported), or definite ALS according to the revised El Escorial criteria were
included and multiple sources were used to ensure complete case ascertainment. Of
986 eligible patients, 674 gave informed consent and returned a complete
questionnaire; 2093 controls randomly selected from the general practitioners'
registers and frequency matched to the patients for sex and age were included.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: We studied the premorbid intake of nutrients in
association with the risk of ALS by using a 199-item food frequency questionnaire
adjusted for confounding factors and corrected for multiple comparisons while
minimizing recall bias.
RESULTS: Presymptomatic total daily energy intake in patients, reported as mean
(SD), was significantly higher compared with controls (2258 [730] vs 2119 [619]
kcal/day; P < .01), and presymptomatic body mass index (calculated as weight in
kilograms divided by height in meters squared) was significantly lower in
patients (25.7 [4.0] vs 26.0 [3.7]; P = .02). With values reported as odds ratio 
(95% CI), higher premorbid intake of total fat (1.14; 1.07-1.23; P < .001),
saturated fat (1.43; 1.25-1.64; P < .001), trans-fatty acids (1.03; 1.01-1.05;
P < .001), and cholesterol (1.08; 1.05-1.12; P < .001) was associated with an
increased risk of ALS; higher intake of alcohol (0.91; 0.84-0.99; P = .03) was
associated with a decreased risk of ALS. These associations were independent of
total energy intake, age, sex, body mass index, educational level, smoking, and
lifetime physical activity. No significant associations between dietary intake
and survival were found.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: The combination of independent positive associations
of a low premorbid body mass index and a high fat intake together with prior
evidence from ALS mouse models transgenic for SOD1 and earlier reports on
premorbid body mass index support a role for increased resting energy expenditure
before clinical onset of ALS.

PMID: 26280944  [PubMed - in process]


1. Int J Mol Sci. 2015 Aug 10;16(8):18628-41. doi: 10.3390/ijms160818628.

ALS-Linked P56S-VAPB Mutation Impairs the Formation of Multinuclear Myotube in
C2C12 Cells.

Tokutake Y(1), Yamada K(2), Ohata M(3), Obayashi Y(4), Tsuchiya M(5), Yonekura
S(6,)(7,)(8).

Author information: 
(1)Interdisciplinary Graduate School of Science and Technology, Shinshu
University, 8304 Minamiminowa, Kamiina, Nagano 399-4598, Japan.
14st505j@shinshu-u.ac.jp. (2)Graduate School of Agriculture, Shinshu University, 
8304 Minamiminowa, Kamiina, Nagano 399-4598, Japan. 14aa114c@shinshu-u.ac.jp.
(3)Graduate School of Agriculture, Shinshu University, 8304 Minamiminowa,
Kamiina, Nagano 399-4598, Japan. 14aa104f@shinshu-u.ac.jp. (4)Graduate School of 
Agriculture, Shinshu University, 8304 Minamiminowa, Kamiina, Nagano 399-4598,
Japan. 15aa103a@shinshu-u.ac.jp. (5)Graduate School of Agriculture, Shinshu
University, 8304 Minamiminowa, Kamiina, Nagano 399-4598, Japan.
15aa111b@shinshu-u.ac.jp. (6)Interdisciplinary Graduate School of Science and
Technology, Shinshu University, 8304 Minamiminowa, Kamiina, Nagano 399-4598,
Japan. yonekura@shinshu-u.ac.jp. (7)Graduate School of Agriculture, Shinshu
University, 8304 Minamiminowa, Kamiina, Nagano 399-4598, Japan.
yonekura@shinshu-u.ac.jp. (8)Department of Interdisciplinary Genome Sciences and 
Cell Metabolism, Institute for Biomedical Sciences, Interdisciplinary Cluster for
Cutting Edge Research (ICCER), Shinshu University, 8304 Minamiminowa, Kamiina,
Nagano 399-4598, Japan. yonekura@shinshu-u.ac.jp.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a rapidly progressive neurodegenerative
disorder that affects upper and lower motor neurons. Since motor neurons target
skeletal muscles, the maintenance system of muscles is disturbed in ALS; however,
the mechanism by which this occurs is unknown. In the present study, we
investigated the effects of ALS-associated P56S-vesicle-associated membrane
protein-associated protein B (VAPB) (P56S-VAPB) on the IRE1-XBP1 pathway, which
is involved in the unfolded protein response (UPR) of the mouse myoblast cell
line (C2C12 cells). Experiments with C2C12 cells transfected with wild-type
wt-VAPB and P56S-VAPB expression vectors showed reduced myotube formation and
aberrant myonuclear position in cells expressing P56S-VAPB. Activity of the
IRE1-XBP1 pathway in the cells visualized with the ERAI system revealed that the 
pathway was disrupted in cells expressing P56S-VAPB, whereas the IRE1-XBP1
pathway activity was enhanced in the differentiation process of normal C2C12
cells. These results suggest that disruption of the IRE1-XBP1 pathway is a cause 
for the reduced myotube formation in P56S-VAPB-expressing cells. The expression
level of the VAPB protein has been reported to be reduced in the neurons of
patients with ALS. Therefore, it is expected that the IRE1-XBP1 pathway is also
impaired in muscle tissues of patients with ALS, which causes a disturbance in
the muscle maintenance system.

PMCID: PMC4581263
PMID: 26266407  [PubMed - in process]


1. Science. 2015 Aug 7;349(6248):650-5. doi: 10.1126/science.aab0983.

TDP-43 repression of nonconserved cryptic exons is compromised in ALS-FTD.

Ling JP(1), Pletnikova O(1), Troncoso JC(2), Wong PC(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, MD 21205-2196, USA. (2)Department of Pathology, Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205-2196, USA. Department of
Neurology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205-2196,
USA. (3)Department of Pathology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, MD 21205-2196, USA. Department of Neuroscience, Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205-2196, USA. wong@jhmi.edu.

Cytoplasmic aggregation of TDP-43, accompanied by its nuclear clearance, is a key
common pathological hallmark of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and frontotemporal 
dementia (ALS-FTD). However, a limited understanding of this RNA-binding protein 
(RBP) impedes the clarification of pathogenic mechanisms underlying TDP-43
proteinopathy. In contrast to RBPs that regulate splicing of conserved exons, we 
found that TDP-43 repressed the splicing of nonconserved cryptic exons,
maintaining intron integrity. When TDP-43 was depleted from mouse embryonic stem 
cells, these cryptic exons were spliced into messenger RNAs, often disrupting
their translation and promoting nonsense-mediated decay. Moreover, enforced
repression of cryptic exons prevented cell death in TDP-43-deficient cells.
Furthermore, repression of cryptic exons was impaired in ALS-FTD cases,
suggesting that this splicing defect could potentially underlie TDP-43
proteinopathy.

Copyright © 2015, American Association for the Advancement of Science.

PMID: 26250685  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. PLoS One. 2015 Aug 5;10(8):e0134830. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0134830.
eCollection 2015.

Time-Point Dependent Activation of Autophagy and the UPS in SOD1G93A Mice
Skeletal Muscle.

Oliván S(1), Calvo AC(1), Gasco S(1), Muñoz MJ(1), Zaragoza P(1), Osta R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorio de Genética y Bioquímica (LAGENBIO), Facultad de Veterinaria,
Instituto Agroalimentario de Aragón (IA2), Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria
Aragón, Universidad de Zaragoza, Zaragoza, Spain.

Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease
characterized by a selective loss of motor neurons together with a progressive
muscle weakness. Albeit the pathophysiological mechanisms of the disease remain
unknown, growing evidence suggests that skeletal muscle can be a target of ALS
toxicity. In particular, the two main intracellular degradation mechanisms,
autophagy and the ubiquitin-proteasome degradative system (UPS) have been poorly 
studied in this tissue. In this study we investigated the activation of autophagy
and the UPS as well as apoptosis in the skeletal muscle from SOD1G93A mice along 
disease progression. Our results showed a significant upregulation of proteasome 
activity at early symptomatic stage, while the autophagy activation was found at 
presymptomatic and terminal stages. The mRNA upregulated levels of LC3, p62,
Beclin1, Atg5 and E2f1 were only observed at symptomatic and terminal stages,
which reinforced the time-point activation of autophagy. Furthermore, no
apoptosis activation was observed along disease progression. The combined data
provided clear evidence for the first time that there is a time-point dependent
activation of autophagy and UPS in the skeletal muscle from SOD1G93A mice.

PMCID: PMC4526523
PMID: 26244336  [PubMed - in process]


1. Toxins (Basel). 2015 Jul 29;7(8):2835-44. doi: 10.3390/toxins7082835.

Bee Venom Acupuncture Augments Anti-Inflammation in the Peripheral Organs of
hSOD1G93A Transgenic Mice.

Lee SH(1), Choi SM(2), Yang EJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Clinical Research, Korea Institute of Oriental Medicine, Daejeon
305-811, Korea. enddlsh@kiom.re.kr. (2)Executive Director of R&D, Korea Institute
of Oriental Medicine, Daejeon 305-811, Korea. smchoi@kiom.re.kr. (3)Division of
Clinical Research, Korea Institute of Oriental Medicine, Daejeon 305-811, Korea. 
yej4823@hanmail.net.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) includes progressively degenerated motor
neurons in the brainstem, motor cortex, and spinal cord. Recent reports
demonstrate the dysfunction of multiple organs, including the lungs, spleen, and 
liver, in ALS animals and patients. Bee venom acupuncture (BVA) has been used for
treating inflammatory diseases in Oriental Medicine. In a previous study, we
demonstrated that BV prevented motor neuron death and increased anti-inflammation
in the spinal cord of symptomatic hSOD1G93A transgenic mice. In this study, we
examined whether BVA's effects depend on acupuncture point (ST36) in the organs, 
including the liver, spleen and kidney, of hSOD1G93A transgenic mice. We found
that BV treatment at ST36 reduces inflammation in the liver, spleen, and kidney
compared with saline-treatment at ST36 and BV injected intraperitoneally in
symptomatic hSOD1G93A transgenic mice. Those findings suggest that BV treatment
combined with acupuncture stimulation is more effective at reducing inflammation 
and increasing immune responses compared with only BV treatment, at least in an
ALS animal model.

PMCID: PMC4549727
PMID: 26230709  [PubMed - in process]


1. Mol Neurodegener. 2015 Aug 1;10:34. doi: 10.1186/s13024-015-0023-x.

Brca1 is expressed in human microglia and is dysregulated in human and animal
model of ALS.

Noristani HN(1), Sabourin JC(2), Gerber YN(3,)(4), Teigell M(5), Sommacal A(6),
Vivanco Md(7), Weber M(8), Perrin FE(9,)(10,)(11).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Neurosciences of Montpellier (INM), INSERM U1051, 80, rue
Augustin Fliche, 34091, Montpellier, Cedex 5, France.
harun.noristani@ibn-lab.com. (2)"Integrative Biology of Neurodegeneration",
IKERBASQUE Basque Foundation for Science and Neuroscience Department, University 
of the Basque Country, Bilbao, Spain. jcsabourin@hotmail.fr. (3)Institute for
Neurosciences of Montpellier (INM), INSERM U1051, 80, rue Augustin Fliche, 34091,
Montpellier, Cedex 5, France. yannick.gerber@ibn-lab.com. (4)"Integrative Biology
of Neurodegeneration", IKERBASQUE Basque Foundation for Science and Neuroscience 
Department, University of the Basque Country, Bilbao, Spain.
yannick.gerber@ibn-lab.com. (5)Institute for Neurosciences of Montpellier (INM), 
INSERM U1051, 80, rue Augustin Fliche, 34091, Montpellier, Cedex 5, France.
mteigell@univ-montp2.fr. (6)Kantonspital St. Gallen. FachMuskelzentrum/ALS
clinic, St. Gallen, Switzerland. andreas.sommacal@kssg.ch. (7)CIC bioGUNE, Cell
Biology & Stem Cells Unit, Technological Park of Bizkaia, Derio, Spain.
mdmvivanco@cicbiogune.es. (8)Kantonspital St. Gallen. FachMuskelzentrum/ALS
clinic, St. Gallen, Switzerland. markus.weber@kssg.ch. (9)Institute for
Neurosciences of Montpellier (INM), INSERM U1051, 80, rue Augustin Fliche, 34091,
Montpellier, Cedex 5, France. florence.perrin@inserm.fr. (10)"Integrative Biology
of Neurodegeneration", IKERBASQUE Basque Foundation for Science and Neuroscience 
Department, University of the Basque Country, Bilbao, Spain.
florence.perrin@inserm.fr. (11)Department "Biologie-Mécanismes du Vivant" Faculty
of Science, University of Montpellier, Montpellier, France.
florence.perrin@inserm.fr.

BACKGROUND: There is growing evidence that microglia are key players in the
pathological process of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). It is suggested that
microglia have a dual role in motoneurone degeneration through the release of
both neuroprotective and neurotoxic factors.
RESULTS: To identify candidate genes that may be involved in ALS pathology we
have analysed at early symptomatic age (P90), the molecular signature of
microglia from the lumbar region of the spinal cord of hSOD1(G93A) mice, the most
widely used animal model of ALS. We first identified unique hSOD1(G93A) microglia
transcriptomic profile that, in addition to more classical processes such as
chemotaxis and immune response, pointed toward the potential involvement of the
tumour suppressor gene breast cancer susceptibility gene 1 (Brca1). Secondly,
comparison with our previous data on hSOD1(G93A) motoneurone gene profile
substantiated the putative contribution of Brca1 in ALS. Finally, we established 
that Brca1 protein is specifically expressed in human spinal microglia and is
up-regulated in ALS patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, our data provide new insights into the pathogenic concept
of a non-cell-autonomous disease and the involvement of microglia in ALS.
Importantly, the identification of Brca1 as a novel microglial marker and as
possible contributor in both human and animal model of ALS may represent a valid 
therapeutic target. Moreover, our data points toward novel research strategies
such as investigating the role of oncogenic proteins in neurodegenerative
diseases.

PMCID: PMC4521418
PMID: 26227626  [PubMed - in process]


1. PLoS One. 2015 Jul 29;10(7):e0132815. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0132815.
eCollection 2015.

Visualization of Sensory Neurons and Their Projections in an Upper Motor Neuron
Reporter Line.

Genç B(1), Lagrimas AK(1), Kuru P(1), Hess R(1), Tu MW(1), Menichella DM(1),
Miller RJ(2), Paller AS(3), Özdinler PH(4).

Author information: 
(1)Davee Department of Neurology and Clinical Neurological Sciences, Northwestern
University, Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, United States of America.
(2)Department of Molecular Pharmacology and Biological Chemistry, Northwestern
University, Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, United States of America;
Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center, Northwestern University, Feinberg
School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, United States of America. (3)Robert H. Lurie
Comprehensive Cancer Center, Northwestern University, Feinberg School of
Medicine, Chicago, IL, United States of America; Departments of Dermatology and
Pediatrics, Northwestern University, Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL,
United States of America; Skin Disease Research Center, Northwestern University, 
Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, United States of America; Center for
Genetic Medicine, Northwestern University, Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, 
IL, United States of America. (4)Davee Department of Neurology and Clinical
Neurological Sciences, Northwestern University, Feinberg School of Medicine,
Chicago, IL, United States of America; Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer
Center, Northwestern University, Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, United
States of America; Cognitive Neurology and Alzheimer's Disease Center,
Northwestern University, Chicago, IL, United States of America.

Visualization of peripheral nervous system axons and cell bodies is important to 
understand their development, target recognition, and integration into complex
circuitries. Numerous studies have used protein gene product (PGP) 9.5 [a.k.a.
ubiquitin carboxy-terminal hydrolase L1 (UCHL1)] expression as a marker to label 
sensory neurons and their axons. Enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP)
expression, under the control of UCHL1 promoter, is stable and long lasting in
the UCHL1-eGFP reporter line. In addition to the genetic labeling of
corticospinal motor neurons in the motor cortex and degeneration-resistant spinal
motor neurons in the spinal cord, here we report that neurons of the peripheral
nervous system are also fluorescently labeled in the UCHL1-eGFP reporter line.
eGFP expression is turned on at embryonic ages and lasts through adulthood,
allowing detailed studies of cell bodies, axons and target innervation patterns
of all sensory neurons in vivo. In addition, visualization of both the sensory
and the motor neurons in the same animal offers many advantages. In this report, 
we used UCHL1-eGFP reporter line in two different disease paradigms: diabetes and
motor neuron disease. eGFP expression in sensory axons helped determine changes
in epidermal nerve fiber density in a high-fat diet induced diabetes model. Our
findings corroborate previous studies, and suggest that more than five months is 
required for significant skin denervation. Crossing UCHL1-eGFP with hSOD1G93A
mice generated hSOD1G93A-UeGFP reporter line of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis,
and revealed sensory nervous system defects, especially towards disease
end-stage. Our studies not only emphasize the complexity of the disease in ALS,
but also reveal that UCHL1-eGFP reporter line would be a valuable tool to
visualize and study various aspects of sensory nervous system development and
degeneration in the context of numerous diseases.

PMCID: PMC4519325
PMID: 26222784  [PubMed - in process]


1. Clin Experiment Ophthalmol. 2015 Jul 29. doi: 10.1111/ceo.12583. [Epub ahead of
print]

Anti-angiogenic effect of ALS-L1023, an extract of Melissa officinalis L., on
experimental choroidal neovascularization in mice.

Roh YJ(1), Jee D(1), Rho CR(1,)(2), Cho WK(1,)(2), Kang S(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, College of Medicine, The
Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, Republic of Korea. (2)Clinical Research
Institute, College of Medicine , Daejeon St. Mary's Hospital, The Catholic
University of Korea, Daejeon, Republic of Korea.

BACKGROUND: The effect of ALS-L1023, an extract of Melissa officinalis L.
(Labiatae; lemon balm) leaves, on experimental choroidal neovascularization (CNV)
in mice was evaluated.
METHODS: C57BL/6 mice were given either vehicle or ALS-L1023 daily via oral
gavage for 3 weeks (days 0-21). CNV was induced by rupturing Bruch's membrane
using laser photocoagulation (day 7). Two weeks after laser injury (day 21), the 
CNV lesions were evaluated by an examination of choroidal flat mounts using
fluorescein-labelled dextran, immunofluorescence staining with isolectin B4 and
fluorescence angiography. The effects of ALS-L1023 on endothelial cell tube
formation and the expression of phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated
kinase 1/2 were evaluated using human umbilical vein endothelial cells.
RESULTS: The extent of CNV was reduced by ALS-L1023. Mice treated with 100 and
200 mg/kg/day of the material exhibited 44.3 and 68.1% reductions in the extent
of CNV lesions, respectively, compared to the vehicle group (P < 0.001). The size
of the isolectin B4-labelled area was also significantly decreased in the
ALS-L1023-treated groups (P < 0.001). On fluorescein angiography,
ALS-L1023-treated mice exhibited significantly less leakage of fluorescent
material than did vehicle-treated mice. ALS-L1023 decreased vascular endothelial 
growth factor-induced human umbilical vein endothelial cell tube formation in a
dose-dependent manner. The expression of phosphorylated extracellular
signal-regulated kinase 1/2 was suppressed by ALS-L1023.
CONCLUSIONS: The laser-induced CNV in mice can be inhibited by ALS-L1023.
Therefore, it may have therapeutic potential for the treatment of diseases
involving CNV.

© 2015 Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Ophthalmologists.

PMID: 26221970  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2015 Aug 11;112(32):9878-83. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1503328112. Epub 2015 Jul 28.

SOD1 aggregation in ALS mice shows simplistic test tube behavior.

Lang L(1), Zetterström P(2), Brännström T(2), Marklund SL(2), Danielsson J(1),
Oliveberg M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, Arrhenius Laboratories of Natural
Sciences, Stockholm University, S-106 91 Stockholm, Sweden; (2)Department of
Medical Biosciences, Umeå University, SE-90186 Umeå, Sweden. (3)Department of
Biochemistry and Biophysics, Arrhenius Laboratories of Natural Sciences,
Stockholm University, S-106 91 Stockholm, Sweden; mikael.oliveberg@dbb.su.se.

A longstanding challenge in studies of neurodegenerative disease has been that
the pathologic protein aggregates in live tissue are not amenable to structural
and kinetic analysis by conventional methods. The situation is put in focus by
the current progress in demarcating protein aggregation in vitro, exposing new
mechanistic details that are now calling for quantitative in vivo comparison. In 
this study, we bridge this gap by presenting a direct comparison of the
aggregation kinetics of the ALS-associated protein superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) 
in vitro and in transgenic mice. The results based on tissue sampling by
quantitative antibody assays show that the SOD1 fibrillation kinetics in vitro
mirror with remarkable accuracy the spinal cord aggregate buildup and disease
progression in transgenic mice. This similarity between in vitro and in vivo data
suggests that, despite the complexity of live tissue, SOD1 aggregation follows
robust and simplistic rules, providing new mechanistic insights into the ALS
pathology and organism-level manifestation of protein aggregation phenomena in
general.

PMCID: PMC4538623
PMID: 26221023  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Neurochem Res. 2015 Jul 23. [Epub ahead of print]

AMPK Signalling and Defective Energy Metabolism in Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis.

Perera ND(1), Turner BJ.

Author information: 
(1)The Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, University of
Melbourne, 30 Royal Parade, Parkville, VIC, 3052, Australia.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is caused by selective loss of upper and
lower motor neurons by complex mechanisms that are incompletely understood. Motor
neurons are large, highly polarised and excitable cells with unusually high
energetic demands to maintain resting membrane potential and propagate action
potentials. This leads to higher ATP consumption and mitochondrial metabolism in 
motor neurons relative to other cells. Here, we review increasing evidence that
defective energy metabolism and homeostasis contributes to selective
vulnerability and degeneration of motor neurons in ALS. Firstly, we provide a
brief overview of major energetic pathways in the CNS, including glycolysis,
oxidative phosphorylation and the AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) signalling 
pathway, while highlighting critical metabolic interactions between neurons and
astrocytes. Next, we review evidence from ALS patients and transgenic mutant SOD1
mice for weight loss, hypermetabolism, hyperlipidemia and mitochondrial
dysfunction in disease onset and progression. Genetic and therapeutic modifiers
of energy metabolism in mutant SOD1 mice will also be summarised. We also present
evidence that additional ALS-linked proteins, TDP-43 and FUS, lead to energy
disruption and mitochondrial defects in motor neurons. Lastly, we review emerging
evidence including our own that dysregulation of the AMPK signalling cascade in
motor neurons is an early and common event in ALS pathogenesis. We suggest that
an imbalance in energy metabolism should be considered an important factor in
both progression and potential treatment of ALS.

PMID: 26202426  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1. Glia. 2015 Dec;63(12):2260-73. doi: 10.1002/glia.22891. Epub 2015 Jul 21.

NLRP3 inflammasome is expressed by astrocytes in the SOD1 mouse model of ALS and 
in human sporadic ALS patients.

Johann S(1), Heitzer M(1), Kanagaratnam M(1), Goswami A(2), Rizo T(2), Weis J(2),
Troost D(3), Beyer C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuroanatomy, RWTH Aachen University, Wendlingweg 2, Aachen,
Germany. (2)Institute of Neuropathology, RWTH Aachen University, Pauwelsstr. 30, 
Aachen, Germany. (3)Division of Neuropathology, Department of Pathology, Academic
Medical Centre, 1105 AZ, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is characterized by the degeneration of
motoneurons in the cerebral cortex, brainstem and spinal cord. Neuroinflammation 
plays an important role in the pathogenesis of ALS and involves the activation of
microglia and astrocytes. Intracellular inflammasome complexes are part of the
innate immunity as they sense and execute host inflammatory responses. The best
characterized component is the NLRP3 inflammasome comprised of the NLR protein
NLRP3, the adaptor ASC and pro-caspase 1. The NLRP3 inflammasome is critical for 
the activation of caspase 1 and the processing and release of IL1β and IL18. In
this study, we investigated the expression, activation and co-localization of the
NLRP3 inflammasome in the spinal cord of male SOD1(G93A) mice carrying a mutant
human superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) variant and regarded as an animal model for
ALS as well as in post-mortem tissue of ALS patients. NLRP3 and its molecular
components as well as IL1β were already detectable in SOD1 mice at a
pre-symptomatic stage after 9 weeks and further increased in 14 week old animals.
Spinal cord astrocytes were identified as the major cell type expressing NLRP3
components. In human ALS tissue, we also found increased NLRP3, ASC, IL18 and
active caspase 1 levels compared to control patients. Our findings suggest that
astroglial NLRP3 inflammasome complexes are critically involved in
neuroinflammation in ALS. GLIA 2015;63:2260-2273.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

PMID: 26200799  [PubMed - in process]


1. Acta Neuropathol. 2015 Nov;130(5):643-60. doi: 10.1007/s00401-015-1460-x. Epub
2015 Jul 22.

Functional recovery in new mouse models of ALS/FTLD after clearance of
pathological cytoplasmic TDP-43.

Walker AK(1), Spiller KJ(1), Ge G(1), Zheng A(1), Xu Y(1), Zhou M(1), Tripathy
K(1), Kwong LK(1), Trojanowski JQ(1,)(2), Lee VM(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Center for Neurodegenerative 
Disease Research, Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia, PA, 19104, USA. (2)Institute on Aging, Perelman School of Medicine,
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, 19104, USA. (3)Department of
Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Center for Neurodegenerative Disease Research,
Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, 19104,
USA. vmylee@upenn.edu. (4)Institute on Aging, Perelman School of Medicine,
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, 19104, USA. vmylee@upenn.edu.

Accumulation of phosphorylated cytoplasmic TDP-43 inclusions accompanied by loss 
of normal nuclear TDP-43 in neurons and glia of the brain and spinal cord are the
molecular hallmarks of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal
lobar degeneration (FTLD-TDP). However, the role of cytoplasmic TDP-43 in the
pathogenesis of these neurodegenerative TDP-43 proteinopathies remains unclear,
due in part to a lack of valid mouse models. We therefore generated new mice with
doxycycline (Dox)-suppressible expression of human TDP-43 (hTDP-43) harboring a
defective nuclear localization signal (∆NLS) under the control of the
neurofilament heavy chain promoter. Expression of hTDP-43∆NLS in these
'regulatable NLS' (rNLS) mice resulted in the accumulation of insoluble,
phosphorylated cytoplasmic TDP-43 in brain and spinal cord, loss of endogenous
nuclear mouse TDP-43 (mTDP-43), brain atrophy, muscle denervation, dramatic motor
neuron loss, and progressive motor impairments leading to death. Notably,
suppression of hTDP-43∆NLS expression by return of Dox to rNLS mice after disease
onset caused a dramatic decrease in phosphorylated TDP-43 pathology, an increase 
in nuclear mTDP-43 to control levels, and the prevention of further motor neuron 
loss. rNLS mice back on Dox also showed a significant increase in muscle
innervation, a rescue of motor impairments, and a dramatic extension of lifespan.
Thus, the rNLS mice are new TDP-43 mouse models that delineate the timeline of
pathology development, muscle denervation and neuron loss in ALS/FTLD-TDP.
Importantly, even after neurodegeneration and onset of motor dysfunction, removal
of cytoplasmic TDP-43 and the concomitant return of nuclear TDP-43 led to neuron 
preservation, muscle re-innervation and functional recovery.

PMID: 26197969  [PubMed - in process]


1. Front Cell Neurosci. 2015 Jul 1;9:250. doi: 10.3389/fncel.2015.00250. eCollection
2015.

Neuroprotective Effect of Bexarotene in the SOD1(G93A) Mouse Model of Amyotrophic
Lateral Sclerosis.

Riancho J(1), Ruiz-Soto M(2), Berciano MT(2), Berciano J(1), Lafarga M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Neurology Service, Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades
Neurodegenerativas (CIBERNED), Instituto de Investigación Marqués de Valdecilla
(IDIVAL), University Hospital Marqués de Valdecilla, University of Cantabria ,
Santander , Spain. (2)Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Centro de
Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas (CIBERNED),
Instituto de Investigación Marqués de Valdecilla (IDIVAL), University of
Cantabria , Santander , Spain.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disease characterized 
by progressive weakness and muscle atrophy related to the loss of upper and lower
motor neurons (MNs) without a curative treatment. There is experimental evidence 
suggesting that retinoids may be involved in ALS pathogenesis. Bexarotene (Bxt)
is a retinoid-X receptor agonist used in the treatment of cutaneous lymphoma with
a favorable safety profile whose effects have been recently investigated in other
neurodegenerative diseases. In this study, we analyze the potential therapeutic
effect of Bxt in the SOD1(G93A) mouse model of ALS. Mice were treated with Bxt or
vehicle five times per week from day 60 onward. Survival, weight, and
neuromuscular function studies together with histological and biochemical
analyses were performed. Bxt significantly delayed motor function deterioration, 
ameliorated the loss of body weight, and extended mice survival up to 30% of the 
symptomatic period. Histological analyses of the lumbosacral spinal cord revealed
that Bxt markedly delayed the early motor-neuron degeneration occurring at
presymptomatic stages in ALS-transgenic mice. Bxt treatment contributed to
preserve the MN homeostasis in the SOD1(G93A) mice. Particularly, it reduced the 
neuronal loss and the chromatolytic response, induced nucleolar hypertrophy,
decreased the formation of ubiquitylated inclusions, and modulated the lysosomal 
response. As an agonist of the retinoic-X receptor (RXR) pathway, Bxt notably
increased the nuclear expression of the RXRα throughout transcriptionally active 
euchromatin domains. Bxt also contributed to protect the MN environment by
reducing reactive astrogliosis and preserving perisomatic synapsis. Overall,
these neuroprotective effects suggest that treatment with Bxt could be useful in 
ALS, particularly in those cases related to SOD1 mutations.

PMCID: PMC4486838
PMID: 26190974  [PubMed]


1. Front Cell Neurosci. 2015 Jul 1;9:248. doi: 10.3389/fncel.2015.00248. eCollection
2015.

Seeking homeostasis: temporal trends in respiration, oxidation, and calcium in
SOD1 G93A Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis mice.

Irvin CW(1), Kim RB(1), Mitchell CS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology - Emory 
University, Atlanta, GA USA.

Impairments in mitochondria, oxidative regulation, and calcium homeostasis have
been well documented in numerous Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) experimental
models, especially in the superoxide dismutase 1 glycine 93 to alanine (SOD1
G93A) transgenic mouse. However, the timing of these deficiencies has been
debatable. In a systematic review of 45 articles, we examine experimental
measurements of cellular respiration, mitochondrial mechanisms, oxidative
markers, and calcium regulation. We evaluate the quantitative magnitude and
statistical temporal trend of these aggregated assessments in high transgene copy
SOD1 G93A mice compared to wild type mice. Analysis of overall trends reveals
cellular respiration, intracellular adenosine triphosphate, and corresponding
mitochondrial elements (Cox, cytochrome c, complex I, enzyme activity) are
depressed for the entire lifespan of the SOD1 G93A mouse. Oxidant markers (H2O2, 
8OH2'dG, MDA) are initially similar to wild type but are double that of wild type
by the time of symptom onset despite early post-natal elevation of protective
heat shock proteins. All aspects of calcium regulation show early disturbances,
although a notable and likely compensatory convergence to near wild type levels
appears to occur between 40 and 80 days (pre-onset), followed by a post-onset
elevation in intracellular calcium. The identified temporal trends and
compensatory fluctuations provide evidence that the "cause" of ALS may lay within
failed homeostatic regulation, itself, rather than any one particular perturbing 
event or cellular mechanism. We discuss the vulnerabilities of motoneurons to
regulatory instability and possible hypotheses regarding failed regulation and
its potential treatment in ALS.

PMCID: PMC4486844
PMID: 26190973  [PubMed]


1. Brain Res. 2015 Dec 2;1628(Pt B):343-350. doi: 10.1016/j.brainres.2015.06.035.
Epub 2015 Jul 14.

Neural and glial progenitor transplantation as a neuroprotective strategy for
Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS).

Haidet-Phillips AM(1), Maragakis NJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins University, 250.10 Rangos Building, 855
North Wolfe St., Baltimore, MD 21205, United States. (2)Department of Neurology, 
Johns Hopkins University, 250.10 Rangos Building, 855 North Wolfe St., Baltimore,
MD 21205, United States. Electronic address: nmaragak@jhmi.edu.

ALS is a neurodegenerative disease with a prevalence rate of up to 7.4/100,000
and the overall risk of developing ALS over a lifetime is 1:400. Most patients
die from respiratory failure following a course of progressive weakness. To date,
only one traditional pharmaceutical agent-riluzole, has been shown to afford a
benefit on survival but numerous pharmaceutical interventions have been studied
in preclinical models of ALS without subsequent translation to patient efficacy. 
Despite the relative selectivity of motor neuron cell death, animal and tissue
culture models of familial ALS suggest that non-neuronal cells significantly
contribute to neuronal dysfunction and death. Early efforts to transplant stem
cells had focused on motor neuron replacement. More practically for this
aggressive neurodegenerative disease, recent studies, preclinical efforts, and
early clinical trials have focused on the transplantation of neural stem cells,
mesenchymal stem cells, or glial progenitors. Using transgenic mouse or rat
models of ALS, a number of studies have shown neuroprotection through a variety
of different mechanisms that have included neurotrophic factor secretion,
glutamate transporter regulation, and modulation of neuroinflammation, among
others. However, given that cell replacement could involve a number of
biologically relevant factors, identifying the key pathway(s) that may contribute
to neuroprotection remains a challenge. Nevertheless, given the abundant data
supporting the interplay between non-neuronal cell types and motor neuron disease
propagation, the replacement of disease-carrying host cells by normal cells may
be sufficient to confer neuroprotection. Key preclinical issues that currently
are being addressed include the most appropriate methods and routes for delivery 
of cells to disease-relevant regions of the neuraxis, cell survival and
migration, and tracking the cells following transplantation. Central to the
initial development of stem cell transplantation into patients with ALS is the
demonstration that transplanted cells lack tumorigenicity and have the
appropriate biodistribution to ensure the safety of ALS patients receiving these 
therapies. Here, we review preclinical and clinical studies focusing on the
transplantation of neural and glial progenitor cells as a promising
neuroprotective therapy for ALS. The rationale for stem cell transplantation for 
neuroprotection, proof-of-concept animal studies, and current challenges facing
translation of these therapies to the clinic is presented. Lastly, we discuss
advancements on the horizon including induced pluripotent stem cell technology
and developments for cellular tracking and detection post-transplantation. With
the safe completion of the first-in-human Phase I clinical trial for intraspinal 
stem cell transplantation for ALS in the United States, the time is ripe for stem
cell therapies to be translated to the clinic and excitingly, evaluated for
neuroprotection for ALS. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled SI:
Neuroprotection.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 26187754  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1. J Med Chem. 2015 Aug 13;58(15):5942-9. doi: 10.1021/acs.jmedchem.5b00561. Epub
2015 Jul 31.

Tertiary Amine Pyrazolones and Their Salts as Inhibitors of Mutant Superoxide
Dismutase 1-Dependent Protein Aggregation for the Treatment of Amyotrophic
Lateral Sclerosis.

Zhang Y(1), Zhao KT(1), Fox SG(2), Kim J(3,)(4), Kirsch DR(5), Ferrante
RJ(3,)(4), Morimoto RI(2), Silverman RB(1).

Author information: 
(1)†Department of Chemistry, Department of Molecular Biosciences, Chemistry of
Life Processes Institute, Center for Molecular Innovation and Drug Discovery,
Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois 60208-3113, United States.
(2)‡Department of Molecular Biosciences, Rice Institute for Biomedical Research, 
Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois 60208-3500, United States.
(3)§Neurological Surgery, Neurology, and Neurobiology Departments, University of 
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, United States. (4)∥Geriatric Research
Educational and Clinical Center (00-GR-H), V.A. Pittsburgh Healthcare System,
7180 Highland Drive, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15206, United States. (5)⊥Cambria
Pharmaceuticals, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, United States.

Pyrazolone derivatives have previously been found to be inhibitors of Cu/Zn
superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1)-dependent protein aggregation, which extended
survival of an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) mouse model. On the basis of
ADME analysis, we describe herein a new series of tertiary amine-containing
pyrazolones and their structure-activity relationships. Further conversion to the
conjugate salts greatly improved their solubility. Phosphate compound 17
exhibited numerous benefits both to cellular activity and to CNS-related
drug-like properties in vitro and in vivo, including microsomal stability,
tolerated toxicity, and blood-brain barrier permeation. These results indicate
that tertiary amine pyrazolones comprise a valuable class of ALS drug candidates.

PMCID: PMC4537347 [Available on 2016-08-13]
PMID: 26186011  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Neuron. 2015 Jul 15;87(2):355-70. doi: 10.1016/j.neuron.2015.06.026.

Endolysosomal Deficits Augment Mitochondria Pathology in Spinal Motor Neurons of 
Asymptomatic fALS Mice.

Xie Y(1), Zhou B(1), Lin MY(1), Wang S(1), Foust KD(2), Sheng ZH(3).

Author information: 
(1)Synaptic Functions Section, The Porter Neuroscience Research Center, National 
Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS), NIH, Room 2B-215, 35
Convent Drive, Bethesda, MD 20892-3706, USA. (2)Department of Neuroscience, Ohio 
State University, 698 BRT, 460 West 12th Avenue, Columbus, OH 43210, USA.
(3)Synaptic Functions Section, The Porter Neuroscience Research Center, National 
Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS), NIH, Room 2B-215, 35
Convent Drive, Bethesda, MD 20892-3706, USA. Electronic address:
shengz@ninds.nih.gov.

One pathological hallmark in ALS motor neurons (MNs) is axonal accumulation of
damaged mitochondria. A fundamental question remains: does reduced degradation of
those mitochondria by an impaired autophagy-lysosomal system contribute to
mitochondrial pathology? We reveal MN-targeted progressive lysosomal deficits
accompanied by impaired autophagic degradation beginning at asymptomatic stages
in fALS-linked hSOD1(G93A) mice. Lysosomal deficits result in accumulation of
autophagic vacuoles engulfing damaged mitochondria along MN axons. Live imaging
of spinal MNs from the adult disease mice demonstrates impaired dynein-driven
retrograde transport of late endosomes (LEs). Expressing dynein-adaptor snapin
reverses transport defects by competing with hSOD1(G93A) for binding dynein, thus
rescuing autophagy-lysosomal deficits, enhancing mitochondrial turnover,
improving MN survival, and ameliorating the disease phenotype in hSOD1(G93A)
mice. Our study provides a new mechanistic link for hSOD1(G93A)-mediated
impairment of LE transport to autophagy-lysosomal deficits and mitochondrial
pathology. Understanding these early pathological events benefits development of 
new therapeutic interventions for fALS-linked MN degeneration.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMCID: PMC4511489 [Available on 2016-07-15]
PMID: 26182418  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Neurobiol Aging. 2015 Oct;36(10):2906.e7-11. doi:
10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2015.06.016. Epub 2015 Jun 18.

HFE p.H63D polymorphism does not influence ALS phenotype and survival.

Chiò A(1), Mora G(2), Sabatelli M(3), Caponnetto C(4), Lunetta C(5), Traynor
BJ(6), Johnson JO(7), Nalls MA(8), Calvo A(9), Moglia C(10), Borghero G(11),
Monsurrò MR(12), La Bella V(13), Volanti P(14), Simone I(15), Salvi F(16),
Logullo FO(17), Nilo R(18), Giannini F(19), Mandrioli J(20), Tanel R(21), Murru
MR(22), Mandich P(4), Zollino M(23), Conforti FL(24), Penco S(25); ITALSGEN
consortium; SARDINIALS consortium, Brunetti M(26), Barberis M(26), Restagno
G(27).

Collaborators: Simone I, Logroscino G, Bartolomei I, Capasso M, Mancardi G,
Origone P, Marinou K, Sideri R, Mosca L, Pinter GL, Corbo M, Fini N,
Georgoulopoulou E, Tremolizzo L, Tedeschi G, Trojsi F, Piccirillo G, Cristillo V,
Bella Vl, Spataro R, Colletti T, Conte A, Luigetti M, Lattante S, Marangi G,
Santarelli M, Petrucci A, Battistini S, Ricci C, Benigni M, Casale F, Marrali G, 
Fuda G, Ossola I, Cammarosano S, Ilardi A, Bertuzzo D, Tanel R, Pisano F,
Costantino E, Pani C, Puddu R, Caredda C, Piras V, Tranquilli S, Cuccu S,
Corongiu D, Melis M, Milia A, Marrosu F, Marrosu MG, Floris G, Cannas A, Cuccu S,
Tranquilli S, Ticca A, Pugliatti M, Pirisi A, Parish LD, Occhineri P, Ortu E, Cau
TB, Loi D.

Author information: 
(1)ALS Center, "Rita Levi Montalcini" Department of Neuroscience, Neurology II,
University of Torino, Torino, Italy; Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria Città
della Salute e della Scienza, Torino, Italy. Electronic address: achio@usa.net.
(2)Department of Neurological Rehabilitation, Fondazione Salvatore Maugeri,
IRCCS, Istituto Scientifico di Milano, Milan, Italy. (3)Neurological Institute,
Catholic University and I.C.O.M.M. Association for ALS Research, Rome, Italy.
(4)Department of Neurosciences, Ophthalmology, Genetics, Rehabilitation and Child
Health, IRCCS Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria San Martino IST, University of
Genoa, Genoa, Italy. (5)NEuroMuscular Omnicenter, Serena Onlus Foundation, Milan,
Italy. (6)Neuromuscular Diseases Research Unit, Laboratory of Neurogenetics,
National Institute on Aging, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(7)Neuromuscular Diseases Research Unit, Laboratory of Neurogenetics, National
Institute on Aging, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA; Department 
of Neurology, Neurological Institute, Neuromuscular Center, Cleveland Clinic,
Cleveland, OH, USA. (8)Molecular Genetics Section, Laboratory of Neurogenetics,
National Institute on Aging, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(9)ALS Center, "Rita Levi Montalcini" Department of Neuroscience, Neurology II,
University of Torino, Torino, Italy; Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria Città
della Salute e della Scienza, Torino, Italy. (10)ALS Center, "Rita Levi
Montalcini" Department of Neuroscience, Neurology II, University of Torino,
Torino, Italy. (11)Department of Neurology, Azienda Universitario Ospedaliera di 
Cagliari and University of Cagliari, Cagliari, Italy. (12)Department of
Neurological Sciences, Second University of Naples, Naples, Italy. (13)ALS
Clinical Research Center, Department of Experimental Biomedicine and Clinical
Neuroscience, University of Palermo, Palermo, Italy. (14)Neurorehabilitation
Unit/ALS Center, Salvatore Maugeri Foundation, IRCCS, Scientific Institute of
Mistretta, Mistretta, Italy. (15)Department of Basic Medical Sciences,
Neurosciences and Sense Organs, University of Bari, Bari, Italy. (16)Center for
Diagnosis and Cure of Rare Diseases, Department of Neurology, IRCCS Institute of 
Neurological Sciences, Bologna, Italy. (17)Neurological Clinic, Marche
Polytechnic University, Ancona, Italy. (18)Department of Neurology and Institute 
of Experimental Neurology (INSPE), IRCCS San Raffaele Scientific Institute,
Milan, Italy. (19)Department of Medical, Surgical and Neurological Sciences,
University of Siena, Siena, Italy. (20)Department of Neuroscience, S. Agostino-
Estense Hospital, University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, Modena, Italy.
(21)Department of Neurology, Santa Chiara Hospital, Trento, Italy. (22)Multiple
Sclerosis Centre, ASL 8, Cagliari/Department of Public Health, Clinical and
Molecular Medicine, University of Cagliari, Cagliari, Italy. (23)Institute of
Medical Genetics, Catholic University of Sacred Heart, Rome, Italy. (24)Institute
of Neurological Sciences, National Research Council, Mangone, Cosenza, Italy.
(25)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Medical Genetics, Niguarda Ca' Granda
Hospital, Milan, Italy. (26)ALS Center, "Rita Levi Montalcini" Department of
Neuroscience, Neurology II, University of Torino, Torino, Italy; Laboratory of
Molecular Genetics, Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria Città della Salute e della 
Scienza, Torino, Italy. (27)Laboratory of Molecular Genetics, Azienda
Ospedaliero-Universitaria Città della Salute e della Scienza, Torino, Italy.

It has been recently reported that the p.His63Asp polymorphism of the HFE gene
accelerates disease progression both in the SOD1 transgenic mouse and in
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) patients. We have evaluated the effect of HFE
p.His63Asp polymorphism on the phenotype in 1351 Italian ALS patients (232 of
Sardinian ancestry). Patients were genotyped for the HFE p.His63Asp polymorphism 
(CC, GC, and GG). All patients were also assessed for C9ORF72, TARDBP, SOD1, and 
FUS mutations. Of the 1351 ALS patients, 363 (29.2%) were heterozygous (GC) for
the p.His63Asp polymorphism and 30 (2.2%) were homozygous for the minor allele
(GG). Patients with CC, GC, and GG polymorphisms did not significantly differ by 
age at onset, site of onset of symptoms, and survival; however, in SOD1 patients 
with CG or GG polymorphism had a significantly longer survival than those with a 
CC polymorphism. Differently from what observed in the mouse model of ALS, the
HFE p.His63Asp polymorphism has no effect on ALS phenotype in this large series
of Italian ALS patients.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 26174855  [PubMed - in process]


1. Neurosci Bull. 2015 Aug;31(4):459-68. doi: 10.1007/s12264-015-1539-3. Epub 2015
Jul 11.

Histone deacetylase 6 delays motor neuron degeneration by ameliorating the
autophagic flux defect in a transgenic mouse model of amyotrophic lateral
sclerosis.

Chen S(1), Zhang XJ, Li LX, Wang Y, Zhong RJ, Le W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Ruijin Hospital, Shanghai Jiaotong University School 
of Medicine, Shanghai, 200025, China.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disorder
characterized by the selective loss of motor neurons. Abnormal protein
aggregation and impaired protein degradation are believed to contribute to the
pathogenesis of this disease. Our previous studies showed that an autophagic flux
defect is involved in motor neuron degeneration in the SOD1(G93A) mouse model of 
ALS. Histone deacetylase 6 (HDAC6) is a class II deacetylase that promotes
autophagy by inducing the fusion of autophagosomes to lysosomes. In the present
study, we showed that HDAC6 expression was decreased at the onset of disease and 
became extremely low at the late stage in ALS mice. Using lentivirus-HDAC6 gene
injection, we found that HDAC6 overexpression prolonged the lifespan and delayed 
the motor neuron degeneration in ALS mice. Moreover, HDAC6 induced the formation 
of autolysosomes and accelerated the degradation of SOD1 protein aggregates in
the motor neurons of ALS mice. Collectively, our results indicate that HDAC6 has 
neuroprotective effects in an animal model of ALS by improving the autophagic
flux in motor neurons, and autophagosome-lysosome fusion might be a therapeutic
target for ALS.

PMID: 26164555  [PubMed - in process]


1. Metab Brain Dis. 2015 Dec;30(6):1369-77. doi: 10.1007/s11011-015-9706-9. Epub
2015 Jul 9.

Early ALS-type gait abnormalities in AMP-dependent protein kinase-deficient mice 
suggest a role for this metabolic sensor in early stages of the disease.

Vergouts M(1), Marinangeli C(2), Ingelbrecht C(1), Genard G(1), Schakman O(3),
Sternotte A(1), Calas AG(1), Hermans E(4).

Author information: 
(1)Group of Neuropharmacology, Université catholique de Louvain, B1.54.10, Av.
Hippocrate 54, 1200, Brussels, Belgium. (2)Alzheimer Dementia Group, Université
catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium. (3)Laboratory of Cell Physiology,
Institute of Neuroscience, Université catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium.
(4)Group of Neuropharmacology, Université catholique de Louvain, B1.54.10, Av.
Hippocrate 54, 1200, Brussels, Belgium. emmanuel.hermans@uclouvain.be.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disease characterized 
by the selective loss of motoneurons. While the principal cause of the disease
remains so far unknown, the onset and progression of the pathology are
increasingly associated with alterations in the control of cell metabolism. On
the basis of the well-known key roles of 5'-adenosine monophosphate-activated
protein kinase (AMPK) in sensing and regulating the intracellular energy status, 
we hypothesized that mice with a genetic deletion of AMPK would develop locomotor
abnormalities that bear similarity with those detected in the very early disease 
stage of mice carrying the ALS-associated mutated gene hSOD1(G93A). Using an
automated gait analysis system (CatWalk), we here show that hSOD1(G93A) mice and 
age-matched mice lacking the neuronal and skeletal muscle predominant α2
catalytic subunit of AMPK showed an altered gait, clearly different from wild
type control mice. Double mutant mice lacking AMPK α2 and carrying hSOD1(G93A)
showed the same early gait abnormalities as hSOD1(G93A) mice over an age span of 
8 to 16 weeks. Taken together, these data support the concept that altered AMPK
function and associated bioenergetic abnormalities could constitute an important 
component in the early pathogenesis of ALS. Therapeutic interventions acting on
metabolic pathways could prove beneficial on early locomotor deficits, which are 
sensitively detectable in rodent models using the CatWalk system.

PMID: 26152932  [PubMed - in process]


1. Mol Neurodegener. 2015 Jul 8;10:25. doi: 10.1186/s13024-015-0026-7.

Viral expression of ALS-linked ubiquilin-2 mutants causes inclusion pathology and
behavioral deficits in mice.

Ceballos-Diaz C(1), Rosario AM(1), Park HJ(1,)(2), Chakrabarty P(1), Sacino A(1),
Cruz PE(1), Siemienski Z(1), Lara N(1), Moran C(1), Ravelo N(1,)(2), Golde TE(1),
McFarland NR(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Translational Research in Neurodegenerative Disease, Department of 
Neuroscience, University of Florida, 1275 Center Dr, PO Box 100159, Gainesville, 
FL, 32610, USA. (2)Department of Neurology, College of Medicine, University of
Florida, 1149 S Newell Dr, L3-100, PO Box 100236, Gainesville, FL, 32610, USA.
(3)Center for Translational Research in Neurodegenerative Disease, Department of 
Neuroscience, University of Florida, 1275 Center Dr, PO Box 100159, Gainesville, 
FL, 32610, USA. nikolaus.mcfarland@neurology.ufl.edu. (4)Department of Neurology,
College of Medicine, University of Florida, 1149 S Newell Dr, L3-100, PO Box
100236, Gainesville, FL, 32610, USA. nikolaus.mcfarland@neurology.ufl.edu.

BACKGROUND: UBQLN2 mutations have recently been associated with familial forms of
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and ALS-dementia. UBQLN2 encodes for
ubiquilin-2, a member of the ubiquitin-like protein family which facilitates
delivery of ubiquitinated proteins to the proteasome for degradation. To study
the potential role of ubiquilin-2 in ALS, we used recombinant adeno-associated
viral (rAAV) vectors to express UBQLN2 and three of the identified ALS-linked
mutants (P497H, P497S, and P506T) in primary neuroglial cultures and in
developing neonatal mouse brains.
RESULTS: In primary cultures rAAV2/8-mediated expression of UBQLN2 mutants
resulted in inclusion bodies and insoluble aggregates. Intracerebroventricular
injection of FVB mice at post-natal day 0 with rAAV2/8 expressing wild type or
mutant UBQLN2 resulted in widespread, sustained expression of ubiquilin-2 in
brain. In contrast to wild type, mutant UBQLN2 expression induced significant
pathology with large neuronal, cytoplasmic inclusions and ubiquilin-2-positive
aggregates in surrounding neuropil. Ubiquilin-2 inclusions co-localized with
ubiquitin, p62/SQSTM, optineurin, and occasionally TDP-43, but were negative for 
α-synuclein, neurofilament, tau, and FUS. Mutant UBLQN2 expression also resulted 
in Thioflavin-S-positive inclusions/aggregates. Mice expressing mutant forms of
UBQLN2 variably developed a motor phenotype at 3-4 months, including nonspecific 
clasping and rotarod deficits.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings demonstrate that UBQLN2 mutants (P497H, P497S, and
P506T) induce proteinopathy and cause behavioral deficits, supporting a "toxic"
gain-of-function, which may contribute to ALS pathology. These data establish
also that our rAAV model can be used to rapidly assess the pathological
consequences of various UBQLN2 mutations and provides an agile system to further 
interrogate the molecular mechanisms of ubiquilins in neurodegeneration.

PMCID: PMC4495639
PMID: 26152284  [PubMed - in process]


1. J Neuroimmune Pharmacol. 2015 Dec;10(4):587-94. doi: 10.1007/s11481-015-9625-x.
Epub 2015 Jul 7.

CD4 + T Cells and Neuroprotection: Relevance to Motoneuron Injury and Disease.

Jones KJ(1), Lovett-Racke AE(2), Walker CL(3), Sanders VM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN, USA.
kjjones1@iupui.edu. (2)The Ohio State University College of Medicine, Columbus,
OH, USA. (3)Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN, USA.

We have established a physiologically relevant mechanism of CD4+ T cell-mediated 
neuroprotection involving axotomized wildtype (WT) mouse facial motoneurons (FMN)
with significance in the treatment of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), a
fatal MN disease. Use of the transgenic mouse model of ALS involving expression
of human mutant superoxide dismutase genes (SOD1(G93A); abbreviated here as
mSOD1) has accelerated basic ALS research. Superimposition of facial nerve
axotomy (FNA) on the mSOD1 mouse during pre-symptomatic stages indicates that
they behave like immunodeficient mice in terms of increased FMN loss and
decreased functional recovery, through a mechanism that, paradoxically, is not
inherent within the MN itself, but, instead, involves a defect in peripheral
immune: CNS glial cell interactions. Our goal is to utilize our WT mouse model of
immune-mediated neuroprotection after FNA as a template to elucidate how a
malfunctioning peripheral immune system contributes to motoneuron cell loss in
the mSOD1 mouse. This review will discuss potential immune defects in ALS, as
well as provide an up-to-date understanding of how the CD4+ effector T cells
provide neuroprotection to motoneurons through regulation of the central
microglial and astrocytic response to injury. We will discuss an IL-10 cascade
within the facial nucleus that requires a functional CD4+ T cell trigger for
activation. The review will discuss the role of T cells in ALS, and our recent
reconstitution experiments utilizing our model of T cell-mediated neuroprotection
in WT vs mSOD1 mice after FNA. Identification of defects in neural:immune
interactions could provide targets for therapeutic intervention in ALS.

PMID: 26148561  [PubMed - in process]


1. Neurosci Lett. 2015 Aug 18;602:50-5. doi: 10.1016/j.neulet.2015.06.052. Epub 2015
Jul 2.

Increased GADD34 in oligodendrocytes in Alzheimer's disease.

Honjo Y(1), Ayaki T(2), Tomiyama T(3), Horibe T(4), Ito H(5), Mori H(6),
Takahashi R(2), Kawakami K(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacoepidemiology, Graduate School of Medicine and Public
Health, Kyoto University, Japan; Department of Neurology, Graduate School of
Medicine, Kyoto University, Japan. (2)Department of Neurology, Graduate School of
Medicine, Kyoto University, Japan. (3)Department of Neurology and Neuroscience,
Osaka City University Medical School, Japan. (4)Department of
Pharmacoepidemiology, Graduate School of Medicine and Public Health, Kyoto
University, Japan. (5)Department of Neurology, Graduate School of Medicine,
Wakayama Medical University, Japan. (6)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Osaka
City University Medical School, Japan. (7)Department of Pharmacoepidemiology,
Graduate School of Medicine and Public Health, Kyoto University, Japan.
Electronic address: kawakami.koji.4e@kyoto-u.ac.jp.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by the accumulation of amyloid-β (Aβ)
and abnormally phosphorylated tau which contribute to endoplasmic reticulum (ER) 
stress. Previous studies demonstrated that Aβ and a truncated fragment of Aβ
induced death of oligodendrocytes in vitro. In addition, a triple-transgenic AD
mouse model exhibits significant region-specific alterations in myelination
patterns at time points preceding the appearance of Aβ accumulation. The growth
arrest and DNA damage protein (GADD) 34 is up-regulated in response to ER stress 
and regulates subunit of protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) complex that
dephosphorylates eukaryotic translation initiator factor 2α (elF2α). Thus, GADD34
is known as an ER stress regulator or ER stress marker. In a recent study, GADD34
was induced in the spinal cord glial cells of an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis
(ALS) mouse model. It is interesting that reduced GADD34 delayed the onset of ALS
and prolonged the survival period in the mouse model. In this study, we have
demonstrated that GADD34 was increased in neurons of human AD brains.
Additionally, this finding was also observed in oligodendrocytes in human AD
brains. Furthermore, we showed that the expression levels of GADD34 in neurons
and oligodendrocytes were significantly increased in the early stage of AD in the
mouse model. As oligodendrocytes were more affected in the early stages of AD in 
this experimental model, ER stress of Aβ oligomers may be more related to
oligodendrocytes than to neurons. These results suggest that GADD34 could be a
therapeutic target for preventing ER stress in neuronal cells in AD.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 26142647  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. J Neurosci Res. 2015 Oct;93(10):1552-66. doi: 10.1002/jnr.23619. Epub 2015 Jul 3.

Glycoprotein nonmetastatic melanoma protein B ameliorates skeletal muscle lesions
in a SOD1G93A mouse model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.

Nagahara Y(1), Shimazawa M(1), Tanaka H(1), Ono Y(1), Noda Y(1), Ohuchi K(1),
Tsuruma K(1), Katsuno M(2), Sobue G(2), Hara H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Pharmacology, Department of Biofunctional Evaluation, Gifu
Pharmaceutical University, Gifu, Japan. (2)Department of Neurology, Nagoya
University Graduate School of Medicine, Nagoya, Japan.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disease characterized 
by progressive loss of motor neurons and subsequent muscular atrophy. The quality
of life of patients with ALS is significantly improved by ameliorating muscular
symptoms. We previously reported that glycoprotein nonmetastatic melanoma protein
B (GPNMB; osteoactivin) might serve as a target for ALS therapy. In the present
study, superoxide dismutase 1/glycine residue 93 changed to alanine (SOD1(G93A) )
transgenic mice were used as a model of ALS. Expression of the C-terminal
fragment of GPNMB was increased in the skeletal muscles of SOD1(G93A) mice and
patients with sporadic ALS. SOD1(G93A) /GPNMB transgenic mice were generated to
determine whether GPNMB expression ameliorates muscular symptoms. The weight and 
cross-sectional area of the gastrocnemius muscle, number and cross-sectional area
of myofibers, and denervation of neuromuscular junctions were ameliorated in
SOD1(G93A) /GPNMB vs. SOD1(G93A) mice. Furthermore, direct injection of a GPNMB
expression plasmid into the gastrocnemius muscle of SOD1(G93A) mice increased the
numbers of myofibers and prevented myofiber atrophy. These findings suggest that 
GPNMB directly affects skeletal muscle and prevents muscular pathology in
SOD1(G93A) mice and may therefore serve as a target for therapy of ALS.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

PMID: 26140698  [PubMed - in process]


1. J Comp Neurol. 2015 Dec 1;523(17):2477-94. doi: 10.1002/cne.23848. Epub 2015 Jul 
21.

Degeneration of proprioceptive sensory nerve endings in mice harboring
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-causing mutations.

Vaughan SK(1,)(2), Kemp Z(1), Hatzipetros T(3), Vieira F(3), Valdez G(1,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Virginia Tech Carilion Research Institute, Virginia Tech, Roanoke, Virginia,
USA. (2)Graduate Program in Translational Biology, Medicine, and Health, Virginia
Tech, Blacksburg, Virginia, USA. (3)ALS Therapy Development Institute, Cambridge,
Massachusetts, 02139. (4)Department of Biological Sciences, Virginia Tech,
Blacksburg, Virginia, 24061.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disease that primarily
targets the motor system. Although much is known about the effects of ALS on
motor neurons and glial cells, little is known about its effect on proprioceptive
sensory neurons. This study examines proprioceptive sensory neurons in mice
harboring mutations associated with ALS, in SOD1(G93A) and TDP43(A315T)
transgenic mice. In both transgenic lines, we found fewer proprioceptive sensory 
neurons containing fluorescently tagged cholera toxin in their soma five days
after injecting this retrograde tracer into the tibialis anterior muscle. We
asked whether this is due to neuronal loss or selective degeneration of
peripheral nerve endings. We found no difference in the total number and size of 
proprioceptive sensory neuron soma between symptomatic SOD1(G93A) and control
mice. However, analysis of proprioceptive nerve endings in muscles revealed early
and significant alterations at Ia/II proprioceptive nerve endings in muscle
spindles before the symptomatic phase of the disease. Although these changes
occur alongside those at α-motor axons in SOD1(G93A) mice, Ia/II sensory nerve
endings degenerate in the absence of obvious alterations in α-motor axons in
TDP43(A315T) transgenic mice. We next asked whether proprioceptive nerve endings 
are similarly affected in the spinal cord and found that nerve endings
terminating on α-motor neurons are affected during the symptomatic phase and
after peripheral nerve endings begin to degenerate. Overall, we show that Ia/II
proprioceptive sensory neurons are affected by ALS-causing mutations, with
pathological changes starting at their peripheral nerve endings. J. Comp. Neurol.
523:2477-2494, 2015. © 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

PMID: 26136049  [PubMed - in process]


1. PLoS One. 2015 Jul 2;10(7):e0131995. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131995.
eCollection 2015.

A Fine Balance of Dietary Lipids Improves Pathology of a Murine Model of
VCP-Associated Multisystem Proteinopathy.

Llewellyn KJ(1), Walker N(2), Nguyen C(2), Tan B(2), BenMohamed L(3), Kimonis
VE(1), Nalbandian A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Genetics and Genomics Medicine,
University of California Irvine, Irvine, CA, 92697, United States of America; Sue
and Bill Gross Stem Institute, University of California Irvine, Irvine, CA,
92697, United States of America. (2)Department of Pediatrics, Division of
Genetics and Genomics Medicine, University of California Irvine, Irvine, CA,
92697, United States of America. (3)Laboratory of Cellular and Molecular
Immunology, Gavin Herbert Eye Institute, University of California Irvine, School 
of Medicine, Irvine, CA, 92697, United States of America; Institute for
Immunology, University of California Irvine, School of Medicine, Irvine, CA,
92697, United States of America.

The discovery of effective therapies and of disease mechanisms underlying valosin
containing protein (VCP)-associated myopathies and neurodegenerative disorders
remains elusive. VCP disease, caused by mutations in the VCP gene, are a
clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of disorders with manifestations
varying from hereditary inclusion body myopathy, Paget's disease of bone,
frontotemporal dementia (IBMPFD), and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). In the
present study, we examined the effects of higher dietary lipid percentages on
VCPR155H/R155H, VCPR155H/+ and Wild Type (WT) mice from birth until 15 months of 
age by immunohistochemical and biochemical assays. Findings illustrated
improvement in the muscle strength, histology, and autophagy signaling pathway in
the heterozygote mice when fed 9% lipid-enriched diets (LED). However, increasing
the LED by 12%, 30%, and 48% showed no improvement in homozygote and heterozygote
survival, muscle pathology, lipid accumulation or the autophagy cascade. These
findings suggest that a balanced lipid supplementation may have a therapeutic
strategy for patients with VCP-associated multisystem proteinopathies.

PMCID: PMC4489713
PMID: 26134519  [PubMed - in process]


1. PLoS One. 2015 Jul 1;10(7):e0132159. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0132159.
eCollection 2015.

Comparative Magnetic Resonance Imaging and Histopathological Correlates in Two
SOD1 Transgenic Mouse Models of Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis.

Caron I(1), Micotti E(2), Paladini A(2), Merlino G(1), Plebani L(1), Forloni
G(2), Modo M(3), Bendotti C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Neurobiology, Neuroscience Department, IRCCS Istituto 
di Ricerche Farmacologiche "Mario Negri", Milan, Italy. (2)Laboratory of Biology 
of neurodegenerative disorders, Neuroscience Department, IRCCS Istituto di
Ricerche Farmacologiche "Mario Negri", Milan, Italy. (3)McGowan Institute for
Regenerative Medicine & Centre for the Neural Basis of Cognition, Departments of 
Radiology & Bioengineering, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, United
States of America.

Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive and fatal disease due to
motoneuron degeneration. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is becoming a promising
non-invasive approach to monitor the disease course but a direct correlation with
neuropathology is not feasible in human. Therefore in this study we aimed to
examine MRI changes in relation to histopathology in two mouse models of ALS
(C57BL6/J and 129S2/SvHsd SOD1G93A mice) with different disease onset and
progression. A longitudinal in vivo analysis of T2 maps, compared to ex vivo
histological changes, was performed on cranial motor nuclei. An increased T2
value was associated with a significant tissue vacuolization that occurred prior 
to motoneuron loss in the cranial nuclei of C57 SOD1G93A mice. Conversely, in
129Sv SOD1G93A mice, which exhibit a more severe phenotype, MRI detected a milder
increase of T2 value, associated with a milder vacuolization. This suggests that 
alteration within brainstem nuclei is not predictive of a more severe phenotype
in the SOD1G93A mouse model. Using an ex vivo paradigm, Diffusion Tensor Imaging 
was also applied to study white matter spinal cord degeneration. In contrast to
degeneration of cranial nuclei, alterations in white matter and axons loss
reflected the different disease phenotype of SOD1G93A mice. The correspondence
between MRI and histology further highlights the potential of MRI to monitor
progressive motoneuron and axonal degeneration non-invasively in vivo. The
identification of prognostic markers of the disease nevertheless requires
validation in multiple models of ALS to ensure that these are not merely
model-specific. Eventually this approach has the potential to lead to the
development of robust and validated non-invasive imaging biomarkers in ALS
patients, which may help to monitor the efficacy of therapies.

PMCID: PMC4488470
PMID: 26132656  [PubMed - in process]


1. Neuroscience. 2015 Aug 20;301:415-20. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2015.06.026.
Epub 2015 Jun 23.

C-kit is important for SOD1(G93A) mouse survival independent of mast cells.

Staats KA(1), Schönefeldt S(2), Van Helleputte L(3), Van Rillaer M(1), Lampi
Y(2), Dooley J(2), Van Den Bosch L(4), Liston A(5).

Author information: 
(1)Translational Immunology Laboratory, VIB, Leuven, Belgium; Department of
Microbiology and Immunology, University of Leuven, Leuven 3000, Belgium;
Laboratory of Neurobiology and Leuven Research Institute for Neuroscience and
Disease (LIND), University of Leuven, Leuven, Belgium; VIB Vesalius Research
Center, VIB, Leuven, Belgium. (2)Translational Immunology Laboratory, VIB,
Leuven, Belgium; Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Leuven,
Leuven 3000, Belgium. (3)Laboratory of Neurobiology and Leuven Research Institute
for Neuroscience and Disease (LIND), University of Leuven, Leuven, Belgium; VIB
Vesalius Research Center, VIB, Leuven, Belgium. (4)Laboratory of Neurobiology and
Leuven Research Institute for Neuroscience and Disease (LIND), University of
Leuven, Leuven, Belgium; VIB Vesalius Research Center, VIB, Leuven, Belgium.
Electronic address: Ludo.VandenBosch@vib-kuleuven.be. (5)Translational Immunology
Laboratory, VIB, Leuven, Belgium; Department of Microbiology and Immunology,
University of Leuven, Leuven 3000, Belgium. Electronic address:
adrian.liston@vib.be.

Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) is a devastating neurodegenerative disease
leading to progressive and lethal paralysis. The disease process is
multi-factorial and is characterized by selective motor neuron degeneration.
Previous work demonstrated that the local concentration of various growth factors
can influence motor neuron survival and disease progression. A potential role for
c-kit, a growth factor receptor present in the spinal cord, in ALS is unknown. To
dissect the role of c-kit in ALS we interbred SOD1(G93A) mice with kit(w-sh/w-sh)
mice, which have a 70% decrease in c-kit expression in the spinal cord.
kit(w-sh/w-sh) SOD1(G93A) mice have a reduced survival compared to SOD1(G93A)
mice, while the amount of motor neurons at end stage is similar. By means of grip
strength and nerve conductance analysis we show that kit(w-sh/w-sh) mice have
diminished strength and slightly impaired compound muscle action potential
latency, although the number of neurons is similar across genotypes. Decreasing
kit gene expression in SOD1(G93A) mice is detrimental and our results imply that 
this effect is independent of mast cells, as tested by ketotifen administration. 
To conclude, our data expand on the protective role of growth factors in ALS, as 
decreasing c-kit by approximately 70% is detrimental in SOD1(G93A) mice.

Copyright © 2015 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 26112382  [PubMed - in process]


1. Acta Neuropathol Commun. 2015 Jun 25;3:36. doi: 10.1186/s40478-015-0212-4.

Wild type human TDP-43 potentiates ALS-linked mutant TDP-43 driven progressive
motor and cortical neuron degeneration with pathological features of ALS.

Mitchell JC(1), Constable R(2), So E(3), Vance C(4), Scotter E(5), Glover L(6),
Hortobagyi T(7), Arnold ES(8,)(9), Ling SC(10), McAlonis M(11), Da Cruz S(12),
Polymenidou M(13,)(14), Tessarolo L(15), Cleveland DW(16), Shaw CE(17).

Author information: 
(1)King's Centre for Neurodegeneration Research, Kings College London, Department
of Basic and Clinical Neurosciences, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and
Neuroscience, London, SE5 8AF, UK. jacqueline.mitchell@kcl.ac.uk. (2)King's
Centre for Neurodegeneration Research, Kings College London, Department of Basic 
and Clinical Neurosciences, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience,
London, SE5 8AF, UK. remy.constable@kcl.ac.uk. (3)King's Centre for
Neurodegeneration Research, Kings College London, Department of Basic and
Clinical Neurosciences, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience,
London, SE5 8AF, UK. eva.so@kcl.ac.uk. (4)King's Centre for Neurodegeneration
Research, Kings College London, Department of Basic and Clinical Neurosciences,
Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience, London, SE5 8AF, UK.
caroline.vance@kcl.ac.uk. (5)King's Centre for Neurodegeneration Research, Kings 
College London, Department of Basic and Clinical Neurosciences, Institute of
Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience, London, SE5 8AF, UK.
emma.scotter@kcl.ac.uk. (6)Centre for Ultrastructural Imaging, Kings College
London, London, SE1 1UL, UK. leanne.glover@kcl.ac.uk. (7)King's Centre for
Neurodegeneration Research, Kings College London, Department of Basic and
Clinical Neurosciences, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience,
London, SE5 8AF, UK. tibor.hortobagyi@kcl.ac.uk. (8)Ludwig Institute for Cancer
Research and Department of Molecular Medicine, University of California at San
Diego, La Jolla, CA, 92093, USA. ejsun@ucsd.edu. (9)Present address:
Neurogenetics Branch, NINDS, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, 20892, 
USA. ejsun@ucsd.edu. (10)Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research and Department of
Molecular Medicine, University of California at San Diego, La Jolla, CA, 92093,
USA. sling@ucsd.edu. (11)Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research and Department of
Molecular Medicine, University of California at San Diego, La Jolla, CA, 92093,
USA. mmcalonis@ucsd.edu. (12)Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research and Department 
of Molecular Medicine, University of California at San Diego, La Jolla, CA,
92093, USA. sdacruz@ucsd.edu. (13)Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research and
Department of Molecular Medicine, University of California at San Diego, La
Jolla, CA, 92093, USA. magdalini.polymenidou@imls.uzh.ch. (14)Present address:
Institute of Molecular Life Sciences, University of Zurich, Zurich, CH-8057,
Switzerland. magdalini.polymenidou@imls.uzh.ch. (15)Mouse Cancer Genetics
Program, National Cancer Institute - Frederick, Frederick, MD, 21702, USA.
tessarol@mail.nih.gov. (16)Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research and Department of
Molecular Medicine, University of California at San Diego, La Jolla, CA, 92093,
USA. dcleveland@ucsd.edu. (17)King's Centre for Neurodegeneration Research, Kings
College London, Department of Basic and Clinical Neurosciences, Institute of
Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience, London, SE5 8AF, UK.
christopher.shaw@kcl.ac.uk.

INTRODUCTION: Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a relentlessly progressive
neurodegenerative disorder, and cytoplasmic inclusions containing transactive
response (TAR) DNA binding protein (TDP-43) are present in ~90 % of cases. Here
we report detailed pathology in human TDP-43 transgenic mice that recapitulate
key features of TDP-43-linked ALS.
RESULTS: Expression of human wild-type TDP-43 (TDP-43(WT)) caused no clinical or 
pathological phenotype, while expression of Q331K mutant (TDP-43(Q331K)) resulted
in a non-lethal age-dependent motor phenotype, accompanied by cytoplasmic TDP-43 
aggregation, mild neuronal loss, with astroglial and microglial activation in the
motor cortex and spinal cord at 24 months. However, co-expression of WT and Q331K
mutant (TDP-43(WTxQ331K)) resulted in an extremely aggressive motor phenotype
with tremor from 3 weeks and progressive hind-limb paralysis necessitating
euthanasia by 8-10 weeks of age. Neuronal loss and reactive gliosis was observed 
in the spinal cord and layer V region of the cortex, with TDP-43, ubiquitin and
p62 cytoplasmic inclusions and an increase in insoluble TDP-43. Nuclear clearance
of TDP-43 was not observed in TDP-43(Q331K) mice but was seen in 65 % of
aggregate containing spinal cord motor neurons in TDP-43(WTxQ331K) mice.
CONCLUSIONS: We hypothesise that cytoplasmic TDP-43(Q331K) aggregates facilitate 
the recruitment of WT protein in compound animals, which dramatically accelerates
neurodegeneration and disease progression. The exploration of disease mechanisms 
in slow and rapid disease models of TDP-43 proteinopathy will help elucidate
novel drug targets and provide a more informative platform for preclinical
trials.

PMCID: PMC4479086
PMID: 26108367  [PubMed - in process]

MYASTHENIA GRAVIS using MOUSE model

Returning 100 abstracts



1. J Neuroinflammation. 2015 Dec 9;12(1):231. doi: 10.1186/s12974-015-0451-0.

Dental follicle mesenchymal stem cell administration ameliorates muscle weakness 
in MuSK-immunized mice.

Ulusoy C(1), Zibandeh N(2), Yıldırım S(2), Trakas N(3), Zisimopoulou P(3),
Küçükerden M(1), Tașlı H(1), Tzartos S(3), Göker K(4), Tüzün E(5,)(6), Akkoç
T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Institute for Experimental Medical Research
(DETAE), Istanbul University, Istanbul, Turkey. (2)Division of Pediatric Allergy 
and Immunology, Marmara University Faculty of Medicine, Istanbul, Turkey.
(3)Department of Neurobiology, Hellenic Pasteur Institute, Athens, Greece.
(4)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Marmara University Faculty of
Dentistry, Istanbul, Turkey. (5)Department of Neuroscience, Institute for
Experimental Medical Research (DETAE), Istanbul University, Istanbul, Turkey.
drerdem@yahoo.com. (6)Department of Neurology, Istanbul Faculty of Medicine,
Istanbul University, Istanbul, Capa, Turkey. drerdem@yahoo.com.

BACKGROUND: Myasthenia gravis (MG) is an antibody-mediated autoimmune disease of 
the neuromuscular junction (NMJ), mostly associated with acetylcholine receptor
(AChR) antibodies. Around 5-10 % of MG patients show antibodies to
muscle-specific tyrosine kinase (MuSK). Mesenchymal stem cell (MSC)
administration has been shown to ameliorate muscle weakness in the experimental
autoimmune myasthenia gravis (EAMG) model induced by AChR immunization.
METHODS: To investigate the efficacy of stem cell treatment in MuSK-related EAMG,
clinical and immunological features of MuSK-immunized mice with or without dental
follicle MSC (DFMSC) treatment were compared.
RESULTS: MuSK-immunized mice intravenously treated with DFMSC after second and
third immunizations showed significantly lower EAMG incidence and severity and
reduced serum anti-MuSK antibody, NMJ IgG, and C3 deposit levels and CD11b+ lymph
node cell ratios. Moreover, lymph node cells of DFMSC-administered mice showed
reduced proliferation and IL-6 and IL-12 production responses to MuSK
stimulation. By contrast, proportions of B and T cell populations and production 
of a wide variety of cytokines were not affected from DFMSC treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that DFMSC treatment shows its beneficial
effects mostly through suppression of innate immune system, whereas other immune 
functions appear to be preserved. Stem cell treatment might thus constitute a
specific and effective treatment method in MuSK-associated MG.

PMCID: PMC4673854
PMID: 26646841  [PubMed - in process]


1. Int J Risk Saf Med. 2015 Nov 27;27 Suppl 1:S72-3. doi: 10.3233/JRS-150695.

Macrocyclic derivatives of 6-methyluracil: New ligands of the peripheral anionic 
site of acetylcholinesterase.

Petrov K.

BACKGROUND: Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitors are widely used in medicine
for pharmacological correction of cholinergic neurotransmission pathologies such 
as myasthenia gravis (MG) and Alzheimer's disease [1, 2]. The efficacy of
anti-AChE drugs is based on their ability to potentiate the effects of
acetylcholine (ACh) due to a decrease in the rate of AChE-catalyzed hydrolysis of
ACh. Crystallographic studies showed that the active site of AChE is located at
the bottom of a deep gorge [3]. It was shown that, in addition to its catalytic
center, AChE has other sites that are crucial for the proper functioning of the
enzyme. In particular, the so-called peripheral anionic site (PAS) located at the
entrance of the active site gorge is responsible for: 1) allosteric modulation of
the catalytic center; 2) enzyme inhibition at high substrate concentration; 3)
and non-catalytic functions such as enhancement of cell adhesion and neurite
outgrowth.
OBJECTIVE: Especially interesting is the relationship between the PAS and
pathological beta-amyloid deposition. This led to a new hypothesis for rational
design of more effective anti-Alzheimer drugs [4].
METHODS: Concentration of drug producing 50% of AChE activity inhibition (IC50)
was measured using the method of Ellman et al. [5]. Toxicological experiments
were performed using IP injection of the different compounds in mice. LD50, dose 
(in mg/kg) causing lethal effects in 50% of animals was taken as a criterion of
toxicity [6]. Molecular docking was performed with Autodock 4.2.6 software.
RESULTS: We described previously a new class of selective mammalian AChE vs.
butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) inhibitors based on alkylammonium derivatives of
6-methyluracil of acyclic topology [7]. In the present study, taking acyclic
derivatives of 6-methyluracil as a model AChE inhibitor, we attempted to develop 
AChE inhibitors that specifically bind to the PAS with weak binding to the active
site of AChE. We attempted to increase the size of AChE ligands to restrict
specific binding to the PAS of AChE. To this aim we synthesized pyrimidinophanes 
bearing two o-nitrobenzylethyldialkylammonium heads. Almost all of synthesized
pyrimidinophanes inhibited AChE in the nanomolar range. Based on molecular
docking simulations, it was suggested that compounds bind AChE to the active
center as well as to the PAS or only to the PAS. Thus, we found that introduction
of the spacer, flexible or rigid, between [5-(o-nitrobenzylethylammonium)pentyl] 
units at N atoms of the 6-methyluracil moiety allows tuning the binding of
6-methyluracil derivatives with AChE.
CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, it can be stated that pyrimidinophanes are promising 
lead scaffold structures for further design of specific ligands for the PAS of
AChE. Also AChE inhibitors with a 6-methyluracil moiety may be considered as
potential drugs for the treatment of pathological muscle weakness syndromes.

PMID: 26639720  [PubMed - in process]


1. J Neuroimmunol. 2015 Dec 15;289:130-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jneuroim.2015.10.023. Epub 
2015 Oct 31.

IL-10 derived from CD1d(hi)CD5(+) B cells regulates experimental autoimmune
myasthenia gravis.

Sheng JR(1), Quan S(2), Soliven B(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL 60637, USA.
Electronic address: sheng1@uchicago.edu. (2)Department of Neurology, University
of Chicago, Chicago, IL 60637, USA.

IL-10-competent subset within CD1d(hi)CD5(+) B cells, also known as B10 cells,
has been shown to regulate autoimmune diseases. In our previous study, adoptive
transfer of CD1d(hi)CD5(+) B cells expanded in vivo by GM-CSF prevented and
suppressed experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (EAMG). The goal of this
study was to further examine the role and mechanism of IL-10 in the regulatory
function of B10 cells in EAMG. We found that only IL-10 competent CD1d(hi)CD5(+) 
B cells sorted from WT mice, but not IL-10 deficient CD1d(hi)CD5(+) B cells
exhibited regulatory function in vitro and in vivo. Adoptive transfer of IL-10
competent CD1d(hi)CD5(+) B cells led to higher frequency of Tregs and B10 cells, 
and low levels of proinflammatory cytokines and autoantibody production. We
conclude that IL-10 production within CD1d(hi)CD5(+) B cells plays an important
role in immune regulation of EAMG.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier B.V.

PMID: 26616882  [PubMed - in process]


1. Immunol Lett. 2015 Oct 19. pii: S0165-2478(15)30050-X. doi:
10.1016/j.imlet.2015.10.009. [Epub ahead of print]

Ocular myasthenia gravis induced by human acetylcholine receptor ϵ subunit
immunization in HLA DR3 transgenic mice.

Wu X(1), Tuzun E(2), Saini SS(2), Wang J(3), Li J(2), Aguilera-Aguirre L(2), Huda
R(2), Christadoss P(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, First Affiliated Hospital, Nanchang University,
Nanchang 330006, PR China. (2)Department of Microbiology and Immunology,
University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, TX 77555-1070, USA. (3)Second
Department of Respiratory Disease, Jiangxi Provincial People's Hospital,
Nanchang, PR China. (4)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of
Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, TX 77555-1070, USA. Electronic address:
pchrista@utmb.edu.

Extraocular muscles (EOM) are preferentially involved in myasthenia gravis (MG)
and acetylcholine receptor (AChR) antibody positive MG patients may occasionally 
present with isolated ocular symptoms. Although experimental autoimmune
myasthenia gravis (EAMG) induced by whole AChR immunization closely mimics
clinical and immunopathological aspects of MG, EOM are usually not affected. We
have previously developed an EAMG model, which imitates EOM symptoms of MG by
immunization of human leukocyte antigen (HLA) transgenic mice with α or
γ-subunits of human AChR (H-AChR). To investigate the significance of the
ϵ-subunit in ocular MG, we immunized HLA-DR3 and HLA-DQ8 transgenic mice with
recombinant H-AChR ϵ-subunit expressed in Escherichia coli. HLA-DR3 transgenic
mice showed significantly higher clinical ocular and generalized MG severity
scores and lower grip strength values than HLA-DQ8 mice. H-AChR
ϵ-subunit-immunized HLA-DR3 transgenic mice had higher serum anti-AChR antibody
(IgG, IgG1, IgG2b, IgG2c and IgM) levels, neuromuscular junction IgG and
complement deposit percentages than ϵ-subunit-immunized HLA-DQ8 transgenic mice. 
Control mice immunized with E. coli extract or complete Freund adjuvant (CFA) did
not show clinical and immunopathological features of ocular and generalized EAMG.
Lymph node cells of ϵ-subunit-immunized HLA-DR3 mice showed significantly higher 
proliferative responses than those of ϵ-subunit-immunized HLA-DQ8 mice, crude E. 
coli extract-immunized and CFA-immunized transgenic mice. Our results indicate
that the human AChR ϵ-subunit is capable of inducing myasthenic muscle weakness. 
Diversity of the autoimmune responses displayed by mice expressing different HLA 
class II molecules suggests that the interplay between HLA class II alleles and
AChR subunits might have a profound impact on the clinical course of MG.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier B.V.

PMID: 26493475  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1. Clin Neuropathol. 2015 Nov-Dec;34(6):359-63. doi: 10.5414/NP300875.

Reduced muscle mitochondrial enzyme activity in MuSK-immunized mice.

Özkök E, Durmus H, Yetimler B, Tasli H, Trakas N, Ulusoy C, Lagoumintzis G,
Tzartos S, Tüzün E.

AIM: Muscle specific kinase (MuSK) antibody-positive myasthenia gravis(MG)
patients might present with clinical and electrophysiological signs of muscle
atrophy. In this study, we investigated the potential contribution of
mitochondrial dysfunction to muscle atrophy induced by MuSK immunity.
METHODS: Mitochondrial enzyme expression was investigated in muscle samples of
MuSK-immunized, acetylcholine receptor (AChR)-immunized, and complete Freund's
adjuvant (CFA)-immunized C57BL/6 (B6) mice using histochemical methods.
Mitochondrial enzyme activity was also investigated in MuSK- and CFA-immunized
mice.
RESULTS: Histochemical analysis showed normal muscle fiber activity on succinate 
dehydrogenase (SDH) and cytochrome oxidase (COX) stains in all immunization
groups. However, MuSKimmunized mice had more ragged-red fibers on modified
Gomori-trichrome (MGT) stain and more pronounced type 1 muscle fiber atrophy.
MuSK-immunized mice also showed reduced citrate synthase, SDH, and NADHcytochrome
c-reductase activity.
DISCUSSION: Our results suggest that MuSK-immunity might induce muscle atrophy
through mitochondrial dysfunction.

PMID: 26365462  [PubMed - in process]


1. Sci Rep. 2015 Sep 10;5:13928. doi: 10.1038/srep13928.

Collagen Q and anti-MuSK autoantibody competitively suppress agrin/LRP4/MuSK
signaling.

Otsuka K(1), Ito M(1), Ohkawara B(1), Masuda A(1), Kawakami Y(1), Sahashi K(2),
Nishida H(3), Mabuchi N(4), Takano A(5), Engel AG(6), Ohno K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neurogenetics, Center for Neurological Diseases and Cancer, Nagoya
University Graduate School of Medicine, Nagoya, Japan. (2)Department of
Neurology, Aichi Medical University, Aichi, Japan. (3)Department of Neurology,
Gifu Prefectural General Medical Center, Gifu, Japan. (4)Department of Neurology,
Okazaki City Hospital, Okazaki, Japan. (5)Department of Neurology, Meitetsu
Hospital, Nagoya, Japan. (6)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester,
Minnesota.

MuSK antibody-positive myasthenia gravis (MuSK-MG) accounts for 5 to 15% of
autoimmune MG. MuSK and LRP4 are coreceptors for agrin in the signaling pathway
that causes clustering of acetylcholine receptor (AChR). MuSK also anchors the
acetylcholinesterase (AChE)/collagen Q (ColQ) complex to the synaptic basal
lamina. We previously reported that anti-MuSK antibodies (MuSK-IgG) block binding
of ColQ to MuSK and cause partial endplate AChE deficiency in mice. We here
analyzed the physiological significance of binding of ColQ to MuSK and block of
this binding by MuSK-IgG. In vitro plate-binding assay showed that MuSK-IgG
blocked MuSK-LRP4 interaction in the presence of agrin. Passive transfer of
MuSK-IgG to Colq-knockout mice attenuated AChR clustering, indicating that lack
of ColQ is not the key event causing defective clustering of AChR in MuSK-MG. In 
three MuSK-MG patients, the MuSK antibodies recognized the first and fourth
immunoglobulin-like domains (Ig1 and Ig4) of MuSK. In two other MuSK-MG patients,
they recognized only the Ig4 domain. LRP4 and ColQ also bound to the Ig1 and Ig4 
domains of MuSK. Unexpectedly, the AChE/ColQ complex blocked MuSK-LRP4
interaction and suppressed agrin/LRP4/MuSK signaling. Quantitative analysis
showed that MuSK-IgG suppressed agrin/LRP4/MuSK signaling to a greater extent
than ColQ.

PMCID: PMC4564764
PMID: 26355076  [PubMed - in process]


1. Iran J Pharm Res. 2015 Summer;14(3):949-54.

Linarin Inhibits the Acetylcholinesterase Activity In-vitro and Ex-vivo.

Feng X(1), Wang X(1), Liu Y(1), Di X(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Pharmacy, Shenyang Pharmaceutical University, 103 Wenhua Road,
Shenyang 110016, PR China.

Linarin is a flavone glycoside in the plants Flos chrysanthemi indici, Buddleja
officinalis, Cirsium setosum, Mentha arvensis and Buddleja davidii, and has been 
reported to possess analgesic, antipyretic, anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective
activities. In this paper, linarin was investigated for its AChE inhibitory
potential both in-vitro and ex-vivo. Ellman's colorimetric method was used for
the determination of AChE inhibitory activity in mouse brain. In-vitro assays
revealed that linarin inhibited AChE activity with an IC50 of 3.801 ± 1.149 μM.
Ex-vivo study showed that the AChE activity was significantly reduced in both the
cortex and hippocampus of mice treated intraperitoneally with various doses of
linarin (35, 70 and 140 mg/Kg). The inhibition effects produced by high dose of
linarin were the same as that obtained after huperzine A treatment (0.5 mg/Kg).
Molecular docking study revealed that both 4'-methoxyl group and 7-O-sugar moiety
of linarin played important roles in ligand-receptor binding and thus they are
mainly responsible for AChE inhibitory activity. In view of its potent AChE
inhibitory activity, linarin may be a promising therapeutic agent for the
treatment of some diseases associated with AChE, such as glaucoma, myasthenia
gravis, gastric motility and Alzheimer's disease.

PMCID: PMC4518125
PMID: 26330885  [PubMed]


1. J Neuroimmunol. 2015 Aug 15;285:71-5. doi: 10.1016/j.jneuroim.2015.04.009. Epub
2015 Apr 23.

Immature dendritic cell exosomes suppress experimental autoimmune myasthenia
gravis.

Bu N(1), Wu HQ(2), Zhang GL(2), Zhan SQ(2), Zhang R(2), Fan QY(2), Li YL(2), Zhai
YF(2), Ren HW(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, The Second Affiliated Hospital, Xi'an Jiaotong
University, Xi'an, Shaanxi 710004, PR China. Electronic address:
ningbuxa@163.com. (2)Department of Neurology, The Second Affiliated Hospital,
Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an, Shaanxi 710004, PR China.

Immature dendritic cell-derived exosomes (iMDEX) display a certain degree of
immunosuppressive activity in autoimmune diseases. However, the role of iMDEX in 
experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (EAMG) is still unclear. Therefore, we 
tested the effects of mouse bone marrow (BM)-derived iMDEX on tolerance induction
in a mouse model of EAMG. In this study, we found that the CELLine culture system
produced more exosomes, the morphology and phenotype of these exosomes were found
to be identical when compared with traditional cell culture. And, iMDEX(1000)
ameliorated the progression of EAMG by reducing AChR-reactive lymphocyte
proliferation, AChR antibody levels and pro-inflammatory cytokine levels.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier B.V.

PMID: 26198922  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Cytokine. 2015 Oct;75(2):261-71. doi: 10.1016/j.cyto.2015.05.030. Epub 2015 Jun
22.

GM-CSF: An immune modulatory cytokine that can suppress autoimmunity.

Bhattacharya P(1), Thiruppathi M(1), Elshabrawy HA(1), Alharshawi K(1), Kumar
P(1), Prabhakar BS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Illinois College of
Medicine, Chicago, IL 60612, USA. (2)Department of Microbiology and Immunology,
University of Illinois College of Medicine, Chicago, IL 60612, USA. Electronic
address: bprabhak@uic.edu.

GM-CSF was originally identified as a colony stimulating factor (CSF) because of 
its ability to induce granulocyte and macrophage populations from precursor
cells. Multiple studies have demonstrated that GM-CSF is also an
immune-modulatory cytokine, capable of affecting not only the phenotype of
myeloid lineage cells, but also T-cell activation through various myeloid
intermediaries. This property has been implicated in the sustenance of several
autoimmune diseases like arthritis and multiple sclerosis. In contrast, several
studies using animal models have shown that GM-CSF is also capable of suppressing
many autoimmune diseases such as Crohn's disease, Type-1 diabetes, Myasthenia
gravis and experimental autoimmune thyroiditis. Knockout mouse studies have
suggested that the role of GM-CSF in maintaining granulocyte and macrophage
populations in the physiological steady state is largely redundant. Instead, its 
immune-modulatory role plays a significant role in the development or resolution 
of autoimmune diseases. This is mediated either through the differentiation of
precursor cells into specialized non-steady state granulocytes, macrophages and
dendritic cells, or through the modulation of the phenotype of mature myeloid
cells. Thus, outside of myelopoiesis, GM-CSF has a profound role in regulating
the immune response and maintaining immunological tolerance.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMCID: PMC4553090 [Available on 2016-10-01]
PMID: 26113402  [PubMed - in process]


1. Med Sci Monit. 2015 Jun 19;21:1774-80. doi: 10.12659/MSM.893458.

miR-15b is Downregulated in Myasthenia Gravis Patients and Directly Regulates the
Expression of Interleukin-15 (IL-15) in Experimental Myasthenia Gravis Mice.

Shi L(1), Liu T(2), Zhang M(1), Guo Y(1), Song C(1), Song D(1), Liu H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, The Fifth Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou
University, Zhengzhou, Henan, China (mainland). (2)Zhongnan University Xiangya
Medical College, Xiangya, Hubei, China (mainland).

BACKGROUND: miR-15b is significantly and consistently downregulated in different 
clinical phenotypes of myasthenia gravis (MG). However, its role in pathogenesis 
of MG is still not clear. This study aimed to explore the function of miR-15b in 
MG.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Blood samples from early-onset MG, late-onset MG, thymoma
patients, and healthy participants were collected. The expression pattern of
IL-15 and miR-15b was identified by qRT-PCR and ELISA in patient serum and mouse 
tissue samples. The regulative role of miR-15b on IL-15 expression was verified
in an experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (EAMG) mice model.
RESULTS: qRT-PCR and ELISA showed that miR-15b expression was significantly lower
and IL-15 expression was significantly higher in all EMG, LMG, and thymoma cases 
compared to healthy controls. Based on mouse model, we confirmed that miR-15b
knockdown could increase IL-15 expression in healthy mice, while miR-15b
overexpression could inhibit IL-15 expression in EAMG mice. Through searching in 
bioinformatics databases, we identified a highly conserved consequential pairing 
between IL-15 and miR-15b. Subsequent dual luciferase assay further verified this
match.
CONCLUSIONS: This study is the first to report the miR-15b-IL-15 axis can
directly regulate IL15 expression, which helps to further explain the abnormal
IL-15 expression in MG patients and the pathogenesis of MG.

PMCID: PMC4485652
PMID: 26087886  [PubMed - in process]


1. Prostate. 2015 Oct;75(14):1518-25. doi: 10.1002/pros.23024. Epub 2015 May 27.

A phase I study of muscadine grape skin extract in men with biochemically
recurrent prostate cancer: Safety, tolerability, and dose determination.

Paller CJ(1), Rudek MA(1), Zhou XC(1), Wagner WD(2), Hudson TS(3), Anders N(1),
Hammers HJ(1), Dowling D(1), King S(1), Antonarakis ES(1), Drake CG(1),
Eisenberger MA(1), Denmeade SR(1), Rosner GL(1), Carducci MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions,
Baltimore, Maryland. (2)Wake Forest University School of Medicine, Winston-Salem,
North Carolina. (3)Howard University Cancer Center, Washington, District of
Columbia.

BACKGROUND: New therapies are being explored as therapeutic options for men with 
biochemically recurrent prostate cancer (BRPC) who wish to defer androgen
deprivation therapy. MPX is pulverized muscadine grape (Vitis rotundifolia) skin 
that contains ellagic acid, quercetin, and resveratrol and demonstrates
preclinical activity against prostate cancer cells in vitro.
METHODS: In the phase I portion of this phase I/II study, non-metastatic BRPC
patients were assigned to increasing doses of MPX (Muscadine Naturals. Inc.,
Clemmons, NC) in cohorts of two patients, with six patients at the highest dose, 
using a modified continual reassessment method. Initial dose selection was based 
on preclinical data showing the equivalent of 500 to 4,000 mg of MPX to be safe
in mouse models. The primary endpoint was the recommended phase II dosing
regimen.
RESULTS: The cohort (n = 14, 71% Caucasian, 29% black) had a median follow-up of 
19.2 (6.2-29.7) months, median age of 61 years, and median Gleason score of 7.
Four patients had possibly related gastrointestinal symptoms, including grade 1
flatulence, grade 1 soft stools, and grade 1 eructation. No other related adverse
events were reported and one patient reported improvement of chronic
constipation. Six of 14 patients came off study for disease progression (five
metastatic, one rising PSA) after exposure for a median of 15 months. One patient
came off for myasthenia gravis that was unrelated to treatment. Seven patients
remain on study. The lack of dose-limiting toxicities led to the selection of
4,000 mg/d as the highest dose for further study. Median within-patient PSADT
increased by 5.3 months (non-significant, P = 0.17). No patients experienced a
maintained decline in serum PSA from baseline.
CONCLUSION: These data suggest that 4,000 mg of MPX is safe, and exploratory
review of a lengthening in PSADT of a median of 5.3 months supports further
exploration of MPX. Both low-dose (500 mg) and high-dose (4,000 mg) MPX are being
further investigated in a randomized, multicenter, placebo-controlled,
dose-evaluating phase II trial.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

PMCID: PMC4537354 [Available on 2016-10-01]
PMID: 26012728  [PubMed - in process]


1. J Neuroimmunol. 2015 Apr 15;281:68-72. doi: 10.1016/j.jneuroim.2015.03.004. Epub 
2015 Mar 6.

IgG1 deficiency exacerbates experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis in BALB/c
mice.

Huda R(1), Strait RT(2), Tüzün E(3), Finkelman FD(4), Christadoss P(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Texas Medical Branch,
Galveston, TX 77555-1070, USA. Electronic address: rhuda@utmb.edu. (2)Division of
Emergency Medicine, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH
45229, USA; Department of Pediatrics, University of Cincinnati, College of
Medicine, Cincinnati, OH 45267, USA. (3)Department of Neuroscience, Institute for
Experimental Medical Research, University of Istanbul, Istanbul 34390, Turkey.
(4)Division of Immunobiology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center,
Cincinnati, OH 45229, USA; Division of Allergy, Immunology and Rheumatology,
Department of Internal Medicine, University of Cincinnati, College of Medicine,
Cincinnati, OH 45267, USA; Department of Medicine, Cincinnati Veterans Affairs
Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH 45220, USA. (5)Department of Microbiology and
Immunology, University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, TX 77555-1070, USA.
Electronic address: pchrista@utmb.edu.

Myasthenia gravis is an autoimmune disease characterized by muscle weakness due
to neuromuscular junction (NMJ) damage by anti-acetylcholine receptor (AChR)
auto-antibodies and complement. In experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis
(EAMG), which is induced by immunization with Torpedo AChR in CFA, anti-AChR
IgG2b and IgG1 are the predominant isotypes in the circulation. Complement
activation by isotypes such as IgG2b plays a crucial role in EAMG pathogenesis;
this suggested the possibility that IgG1, which does not activate complement
through the classical pathway, may suppress EAMG. In this study, we show that
AChR-immunized BALB/c mice genetically deficient for IgG1 produce higher levels
of complement-activating isotypes of anti-AChR, especially IgG3 and IgG2a, and
develop increased IgG3/IgG2a deposits at the NMJ, as compared to wild type (WT)
BALB/c mice. Consistent with this, AChR-immunized IgG1(-/-) BALB/c mice lose
muscle strength and muscle AChR to a greater extent than AChR-immunized WT mice. 
These observations demonstrate that IgG1 deficiency leads to increased severity
of EAMG associated with an increase in complement activating IgG isotypes.
Further studies are needed to dissect the specific role or mechanism of IgG1 in
limiting EAMG and that of EAMG exacerbating role of complement activating IgG3
and IgG2a in IgG1 deficiency.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMCID: PMC4395862 [Available on 2016-04-15]
PMID: 25867470  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. J Biol Regul Homeost Agents. 2015 Jan-Mar;29(1):195-200.

Research on the influence of α-GalCer activating experimental autoimmune
myasthenia gravis mice NKT cells at different times on myasthenia gravis.

Wang YH(1), Jia JC(1), Liu G(2), Wang YF(3).

Author information: 
(1)Emergency Clinical Department, the First Affiliated Hospital, Henan Science
and Technology University, Luoyang, China. (2)Molecular Biology Laboratory, the
First Affiliated Hospital, Henan Science and Technology University, Luoyang,
China. (3)Basic Medical, Henan Science and Technology University, Luoyang, China.

This study aims to observe the effect of natural killer T (NKT) cell activation
on experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (EAMG) model by injecting mice with 
α-GalCer in enterocoelia at different times, thus to provide a new therapy for
EAMG. EAMG animal model of C57BL/6 mice was established and the mice were
injected with α-GalCer irritant in enterocoelia. Vα14 NKT NKT cells were then
activated through the transfer of CD1d. This paper discusses the effect of NKT
cell activation on EAMG at different times by observing the variation of weight, 
clinical performance and relevant immunity indexes of mice. In C57BL/6 mice, the 
EAMG incidence rate of the Vehicle Group was 90%, the average onset duration was 
37 ± 6 days; The incidence rate of α-GalCer prevention group was 30%;, the
average onset duration was 51 ± 9 days. The forward immunization of α-GalCer
activates NKT and protects C57BL/6 mice from the occurrence of EAMG, which
provides basis for prevention and treatment of EAMG and other autoimmune
diseases.

PMID: 25864758  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Curr Pharm Des. 2015;21(18):2468-86.

Mouse models of myasthenia gravis.

Ban J, Phillips WD(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Medical Sciences (Physiology) and Bosch Institute, Anderson Stuart
Bldg (F13), University of Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia.
william.phillips@sydney.edu.au.

Myasthenia gravis is a muscle weakness disease characterized by autoantibodies
that target components of the neuromuscular junction, impairing synaptic
transmission. The most common form of myasthenia gravis involves antibodies that 
bind the nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in the postsynaptic membrane. Many of 
the remaining cases are due to antibodies against muscle specific tyrosine kinase
(MuSK). Recently, autoantibodies against LRP4 (another component of the MuSK
signaling complex in the postsynaptic membrane) were identified as the likely
cause of myasthenia gravis in some patients. Fatiguing weakness is the common
symptom in all forms of myasthenia gravis, but muscles of the body are
differentially affected, for reasons that are not fully understood. Much of what 
we have learnt about the immunological and neurobiological aspects of the
pathogenesis derives from mouse models. The most widely used mouse models involve
either passive transfer of autoantibodies, or active immunization of the mouse
with acetylcholine receptors or MuSK protein. These models can provide a robust
replication of many of the features of the human disease. Depending upon the
protocol, acute fatiguing weakness develops 2 - 14 days after the start of
autoantibody injections (passive transfer) or might require repeated
immunizations over several weeks (active models). Here we review mouse models of 
myasthenia gravis, including what they have contributed to current understanding 
of the pathogenic mechanisms and their current application to the testing of
therapeutics.

PMID: 25777761  [PubMed - in process]


1. Exp Neurol. 2015 Aug;270:3-10. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2015.02.025. Epub 2015
Mar 3.

Guidelines for pre-clinical assessment of the acetylcholine receptor--specific
passive transfer myasthenia gravis model-Recommendations for methods and
experimental designs.

Kusner LL(1), Losen M(2), Vincent A(3), Lindstrom J(4), Tzartos S(5), Lazaridis
K(5), Martinez-Martinez P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology & Physiology, The George Washington University,
Washington, DC, USA. Electronic address: lkusner@gwu.edu. (2)Division
Neuroscience, School for Mental Health and Neuroscience, Maastricht University,
6200 MD Maastricht, The Netherlands. (3)The Weatherall Institute of Molecular
Medicine, University of Oxford, John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford, UK.
(4)Department of Neuroscience, University of Pennsylvania Medical School,
Philadelphia, PA, USA. (5)Department of Neurobiology, Hellenic Pasteur Institute,
Athens, Greece.

Antibodies against the muscle acetylcholine receptor (AChR) are the most common
cause of myasthenia gravis (MG). Passive transfer of AChR antibodies from MG
patients into animals reproduces key features of human disease, including
antigenic modulation of the AChR, complement-mediated damage of the neuromuscular
junction, and muscle weakness. Similarly, AChR antibodies generated by active
immunization in experimental autoimmune MG models can subsequently be passively
transferred to other animals and induce weakness. The passive transfer model is
useful to test therapeutic strategies aimed at the effector mechanism of the
autoantibodies. Here we summarize published and unpublished experience using the 
AChR passive transfer MG model in mice, rats and rhesus monkeys, and give
recommendations for the design of preclinical studies in order to facilitate
translation of positive and negative results to improve MG therapies.

Copyright © 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMCID: PMC4466131 [Available on 2016-08-01]
PMID: 25743217  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Exp Neurol. 2015 Aug;270:55-65. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2015.02.010. Epub 2015
Feb 18.

Thymoma related myasthenia gravis in humans and potential animal models.

Marx A(1), Porubsky S(2), Belharazem D(2), Saruhan-Direskeneli G(3), Schalke
B(4), Ströbel P(5), Weis CA(6).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pathology, University Medical Centre Mannheim, University of
Heidelberg, Theodor-Kutzer-Ufer 13, D-68167 Mannheim, Germany. Electronic
address: alexander.marx@umm.de. (2)Institute of Pathology, University Medical
Centre Mannheim, University of Heidelberg, Theodor-Kutzer-Ufer 13, D-68167
Mannheim, Germany. (3)Department of Physiology, Istanbul Faculty of Medicine,
Istanbul University, Capa 34093, Istanbul, Turkey. Electronic address:
gsaruhan@istanbul.edu.tr. (4)Department of Neurology, Bezirkskrankenhaus,
University of Regensburg, D-93042 Regensburg, Germany. Electronic address:
schalke@medbo.de. (5)Institute of Pathology, University of Göttingen,
Robert-Koch-Str. 40, D-37075 Göttingen, Germany. Electronic address:
philipp.stroebel@med.uni-goettingen.de. (6)Institute of Pathology, University
Medical Centre Mannheim, University of Heidelberg, Theodor-Kutzer-Ufer 13,
D-68167 Mannheim, Germany. Electronic address:
cleo-aron.weis@medma.uni-heidelberg.de.

Thymoma-associated Myasthenia gravis (TAMG) is one of the anti-acetylcholine
receptor MG (AChR-MG) subtypes. The clinico-pathological features of TAMG and its
pathogenesis are described here in comparison with pathogenetic models suggested 
for the more common non-thymoma AChR-MG subtypes, early onset MG and late onset
MG. Emphasis is put on the role of abnormal intratumorous T cell selection and
activation, lack of intratumorous myoid cells and regulatory T cells as well as
deficient expression of the autoimmune regulator (AIRE) by neoplastic thymic
epithelial cells. We review spontaneous and genetically engineered thymoma models
in a spectrum of animals and the extensive clinical and immunological overlap
between canine, feline and human TAMG. Finally, limitations and perspectives of
the transplantation of human and murine thymoma tissue into nude mice, as
potential models for TAMG, are addressed.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25700911  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Exp Neurol. 2015 Aug;270:11-7. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2015.02.009. Epub 2015
Feb 16.

Guidelines for standard preclinical experiments in the mouse model of myasthenia 
gravis induced by acetylcholine receptor immunization.

Tuzun E(1), Berrih-Aknin S(2), Brenner T(3), Kusner LL(4), Le Panse R(2), Yang
H(5), Tzartos S(6), Christadoss P(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Institute for Experimental Medical Research
(DETAE), Istanbul University, Istanbul, Turkey. (2)INSERM U974, Paris, France;
CNRS UMR 7215, Paris, France; UPMC Univ Paris 6, Paris, France; AIM, Institute of
Myology, Paris, France. (3)Department of Neurology, The Agnes Ginges Center for
Human Neurogenetics, Hadassah-Hebrew University Medical Center, Jerusalem,
Israel. (4)Department of Pharmacology and Physiology, George Washington
University, Washington, DC, USA. (5)Department of Neurology, Xiangya Hospital,
Central South University, Changsha, Hunan, PR China. (6)Department of Pharmacy,
School of Health Sciences, University of Patras, Patras 26504, Greece.
(7)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Texas Medical Branch,
Galveston, TX, USA. Electronic address: pchrista@utmb.edu.

Myasthenia gravis (MG) is an autoimmune disorder characterized by generalized
muscle weakness due to neuromuscular junction (NMJ) dysfunction brought by
acetylcholine receptor (AChR) antibodies in most cases. Although steroids and
other immunosuppressants are effectively used for treatment of MG, these
medications often cause severe side effects and a complete remission cannot be
obtained in many cases. For pre-clinical evaluation of more effective and less
toxic treatment methods for MG, the experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis
(EAMG) induced by Torpedo AChR immunization has become one of the standard animal
models. Although numerous compounds have been recently proposed for MG mostly by 
using the active immunization EAMG model, only a few have been proven to be
effective in MG patients. The variability in the experimental design,
immunization methods and outcome measurements of pre-clinical EAMG studies make
it difficult to interpret the published reports and assess the potential for
application to MG patients. In an effort to standardize the active immunization
EAMG model, we propose standard procedures for animal care conditions, sampling
and randomization of mice, experimental design and outcome measures. Utilization 
of these standard procedures might improve the power of pre-clinical EAMG
experiments and increase the chances for identifying promising novel treatment
methods that can be effectively translated into clinical trials for MG.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25697844  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Eur J Immunol. 2015 May;45(5):1339-47. doi: 10.1002/eji.201445064. Epub 2015 Mar 
20.

IL-17-producing CD4(+) T cells contribute to the loss of B-cell tolerance in
experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis.

Schaffert H(1), Pelz A(1), Saxena A(2), Losen M(2), Meisel A(1,)(3,)(4), Thiel
A(5), Kohler S(1,)(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Neurology, Charité-University Medicine Berlin,
Berlin, Germany. (2)Department of Psychiatry and Neuropsychology, School for
Mental Health and Neuroscience, Maastricht University, Maastricht, the
Netherlands. (3)NeuroCure Clinical Research Center (NCRC), Charité-University
Medicine Berlin, Berlin, Germany. (4)Department of Neurology, Charité-University 
Medicine Berlin, Berlin, Germany. (5)Department of Regenerative Immunology and
Aging, Berlin-Brandenburg Center for Regenerative Therapies (BCRT),
Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Campus Virchow-Klinikum, Berlin, Germany.

The role of Th17 cells in the pathogenesis of autoantibody-mediated diseases is
unclear. Here, we assessed the contribution of Th17 cells to the pathogenesis of 
experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (EAMG), which is induced by repetitive 
immunizations with Torpedo californica acetylcholine receptor (tAChR). We show
that a significant fraction of tAChR-specific CD4(+) T cells is producing IL-17. 
IL-17(ko) mice developed fewer or no EAMG symptoms, although the frequencies of
tAChR-specific CD4(+) T cells secreting IL-2, IFN-γ, or IL-21, and the percentage
of FoxP3(+) Treg cells were similar to WT mice. Even though the total anti-tAChR 
antibody levels were equal, the complement fixating IgG2b subtype was reduced in 
IL-17(ko) as compared to WT mice. Most importantly, pathogenic anti-murine AChR
antibodies were significantly lower in IL-17(ko) mice. Furthermore, we confirmed 
the role of Th17 cells in EAMG pathogenesis by the reconstitution of TCR β/δ(ko) 
mice with WT or IL-17(ko) CD4(+) T cells. In conclusion, we show that the level
of IgG2b and the loss of B-cell tolerance, which results in pathogenic
anti-murine AChR-specific antibodies, are dependent on IL-17 production by CD4(+)
T cells. Thus, we describe here for the first time how Th17 cells are involved in
the induction of classical antibody-mediated autoimmunity.

© 2015 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

PMID: 25676041  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Acta Neuropathol Commun. 2015 Jan 15;3:1. doi: 10.1186/s40478-014-0179-6.

IL-6 and Akt are involved in muscular pathogenesis in myasthenia gravis.

Maurer M, Bougoin S, Feferman T, Frenkian M, Bismuth J, Mouly V, Clairac G,
Tzartos S, Fadel E, Eymard B, Fuchs S, Souroujon MC, Berrih-Aknin S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Sorbonne Universités, UPMC Univ Paris 06, Myology Research Center UM76, Paris,
F-75013, France. sonia.berrih-aknin@upmc.fr.

INTRODUCTION: Anti-acetylcholine receptor (AChR) autoantibodies target muscles in
spontaneous human myasthenia gravis (MG) and its induced experimental autoimmune 
model MG (EAMG). The aim of this study was to identify novel functional
mechanisms occurring in the muscle pathology of myasthenia.
RESULTS: A transcriptome analysis performed on muscle tissue from MG patients
(compared with healthy controls) and from EAMG rats (compared with control rats) 
revealed a deregulation of genes associated with the Interleukin-6 (IL-6) and
Insulin-Like Growth Factor 1 (IGF-1) pathways in both humans and rats. The
expression of IL-6 and its receptor IL-6R transcripts was found to be altered in 
muscles of EAMG rats and mice compared with control animals. In muscle biopsies
from MG patients, IL-6 protein level was higher than in control muscles. Using
cultures of human muscle cells, we evaluated the effects of anti-AChR antibodies 
on IL-6 production and on the phosphorylation of Protein Kinase B (PKB/Akt). Most
MG sera and some monoclonal anti-AChR antibodies induced a significant increase
in IL-6 production by human muscle cells. Furthermore, Akt phosphorylation in
response to insulin was decreased in the presence of monoclonal anti-AChR
antibodies.
CONCLUSIONS: Anti-AChR antibodies alter IL-6 production by muscle cells,
suggesting a putative novel functional mechanism of action for the anti-AChR
antibodies. IL-6 is a myokine with known effects on signaling pathways such as
Akt/mTOR (mammalian Target of Rapamycin). Since Akt plays a key role in multiple 
cellular processes, the reduced phosphorylation of Akt by the anti-AChR
antibodies may have a significant impact on the muscle fatigability observed in
MG patients.

PMCID: PMC4308930
PMID: 25627031  [PubMed - in process]


1. Exp Neurol. 2015 Aug;270:41-54. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2015.01.007. Epub 2015
Jan 23.

Electrophysiological analysis of neuromuscular synaptic function in myasthenia
gravis patients and animal models.

Plomp JJ(1), Morsch M(2), Phillips WD(3), Verschuuren JJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Leiden University Medical Centre, Leiden, The
Netherlands. Electronic address: j.j.plomp@lumc.nl. (2)Motor Neuron Disease
Research Group, Macquarie University, Sydney, Australia. (3)Physiology and Bosch 
Institute, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia. (4)Department of Neurology,
Leiden University Medical Centre, Leiden, The Netherlands.

Study of the electrophysiological function of the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) is
instrumental in the understanding of the symptoms and pathophysiology of
myasthenia gravis (MG), an autoimmune disorder characterized by fluctuating and
fatigable muscle weakness. Most patients have autoantibodies to the acetylcholine
receptor at the NMJ. However, in recent years autoantibodies to other crucial
postsynaptic membrane proteins have been found in previously 'seronegative' MG
patients. Electromyographical recording of compound and single-fibre muscle
action potentials provides a crucial in vivo method to determine neuromuscular
transmission failure while ex vivo (miniature) endplate potential recordings can 
reveal the precise synaptic impairment. Here we will review these
electrophysiological methods used to assess NMJ function and discuss their
application and typical results found in the diagnostic and experimental study of
patients and animal models of the several forms of MG.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25620417  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Nat Rev Neurol. 2015 Feb;11(2):80-9. doi: 10.1038/nrneurol.2014.253. Epub 2015
Jan 6.

Intravenous immunoglobulin in neurology--mode of action and clinical efficacy.

Lünemann JD(1), Nimmerjahn F(2), Dalakas MC(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Experimental Immunology, Department of Neuroinflammation,
University of Zürich, Winterthurer Strasse 190, CH-8057 Zürich, Switzerland.
(2)Department of Biology, Institute of Genetics, University of Erlangen-Nürnberg,
Erwin-Rommelstrasse 3, 91058 Erlangen, Germany. (3)Neuroimmunology Unit,
University of Athens Medical School, Mikras Asias 75, Athens 115 27, Greece.

Intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg)-a preparation of polyclonal serum IgG pooled
from thousands of blood donors-has been used for nearly three decades, and is
proving to be an efficient anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory treatment for a
growing number of neurological diseases. Evidence from controlled clinical trials
has established IVIg as a first-line therapy for Guillain-Barré syndrome, chronic
inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy and multifocal motor neuropathy. IVIg
is also an effective rescue therapy in some patients with worsening myasthenia
gravis, and is beneficial as a second-line therapy for dermatomyositis and
stiff-person syndrome. IVIg has been tested in some neurodegenerative disorders, 
but a controlled study in Alzheimer disease yielded disappointing results.
Despite its widespread use and therapeutic success, the mechanisms of action of
IVIg are poorly understood. Several hypotheses, based on the function of either
the variable or constant IgG fragments, have been proposed to explain IVIg's
immunomodulatory activity. This Review highlights emerging data on the mechanisms
of action of IVIg related to its anti-inflammatory activity, especially that
involving the cellular Fcγ receptors and Fc glycosylation. We also summarize
recent trials in neurological diseases, discuss potential biomarkers of efficacy,
offer practical guidelines on administration, and provide a rationale for
experimental trials in neuroinflammatory disorders.

PMID: 25561275  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Clin Exp Immunol. 2014 Dec;178 Suppl 1:124-6. doi: 10.1111/cei.12538.

7th International Immunoglobulin Conference: Interlaken Leadership Awards.

Dalakas MC(1), Löscher WN.

Author information: 
(1)University of Athens Medical School, Athens, Greece; Thomas Jefferson
University, Philadelphia, PA, USA.

The Interlaken Leadership Awards (ILAs), established in 2010, are monetary grants
pledged annually by CSL Behring to fund research into the use of immunoglobulin
(Ig) therapy, especially into its use in neurological disorders. Five recipients 
of the 2011/2012 Awards were invited to present their research at the 7th
International Immunoglobulin Conference. Dr Honnorat reports on paraneoplastic
neurological syndromes (PNS). His multi-centre Phase II trial, currently under
way, will assess the efficacy of IVIg therapy in treating PNS in the first
3 months of treatment. Dr Geis shows improved disease scores after IVIg treatment
in a mouse model of neuromyelitis optica (NMO). It is hoped that these promising 
results will translate well into human NMO. Dr Schmidt studied IVIg therapy in an
mdx mouse model for Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). He reports that motor
function improved and myopathic changes in skeletal muscles and creatine kinase
release were decreased. Dr Gamez presents the design and rationale for a Phase II
clinical trial investigating the preoperative use of IVIg therapy in myasthenia
gravis patients to prevent post-operative myasthenic crisis. Dr Goebel reports
results from studies elucidating the immune-mediated pathogenesis of complex
regional pain syndrome (CRPS), the successful IVIg therapy in a proportion of
CRPS patients, and the development of a model for predicting which patients are
more likely to respond to Ig therapy.

© 2014 British Society for Immunology.

PMCID: PMC4285518
PMID: 25546789  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Exp Neurol. 2015 Aug;270:29-40. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2014.12.013. Epub 2014
Dec 24.

Guidelines for pre-clinical animal and cellular models of MuSK-myasthenia gravis.

Phillips WD(1), Christadoss P(2), Losen M(3), Punga AR(4), Shigemoto K(5),
Verschuuren J(6), Vincent A(7).

Author information: 
(1)School of Medical Sciences (Physiology) and Bosch Institute, Anderson Stuart
Bldg (F13), University of Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia. Electronic address:
william.phillips@sydney.edu.au. (2)Department of Microbiology and Immunology,
University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, TX 77555, USA. Electronic address:
pchrista@utmb.edu. (3)Department of Neuroscience, School of Mental Health and
Neuroscience, Maastricht University, Maastricht, the Netherlands. Electronic
address: m.losen@maastrichtuniversity.nl. (4)Institute of Neuroscience,
Department of Clinical Neurophysiology, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.
Electronic address: anna.rostedt.punga@neuro.uu.se. (5)Department of Geriatric
Medicine, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Gerontology, Tokyo, Japan. Electronic
address: kazshige@tmig.or.jp. (6)Department of Neurology, Leiden University
Medical Center, 2333 ZA Leiden, the Netherlands. Electronic address:
J.J.G.M.Verschuuren@lumc.nl. (7)Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences,
Weatherall Institute of Molecular Medicine, University of Oxford, Oxford, United 
Kingdom. Electronic address: angela.vincent@ndcn.ox.ac.uk.

Muscle-specific tyrosine kinase (MuSK) autoantibodies are the hallmark of a form 
of myasthenia gravis (MG) that can challenge the neurologist and the
experimentalist. The clinical disease can be difficult to treat effectively. MuSK
autoantibodies affect the neuromuscular junction in several ways. When added to
muscle cells in culture, MuSK antibodies disperse acetylcholine receptor
clusters. Experimental animals actively immunized with MuSK develop MuSK
autoantibodies and muscle weakness. Weakness is associated with reduced
postsynaptic acetylcholine receptor numbers, reduced amplitudes of miniature
endplate potentials and endplate potentials, and failure of neuromuscular
transmission. Similar impairments have been found in mice injected with IgG from 
MG patients positive for MuSK autoantibody (MuSK-MG). The active and passive
models have begun to reveal the mechanisms by which MuSK antibodies disrupt
synaptic function at the neuromuscular junction, and should be valuable in
developing therapies for MuSK-MG. However, translation into new and improved
treatments for patients requires procedures that are not too cumbersome but
suitable for examining different aspects of MuSK function and the effects of
potential therapies. Study design, conduct and analysis should be carefully
considered and transparently reported. Here we review what has been learnt from
animal and culture models of MuSK-MG, and offer guidelines for experimental
design and conduct of studies, including sample size determination,
randomization, outcome parameters and precautions for objective data analysis.
These principles may also be relevant to the increasing number of other
antibody-mediated diseases that are now recognized.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25542979  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. J Thorac Oncol. 2015 Feb;10(2):360-6. doi: 10.1097/JTO.0000000000000390.

Detection of human polyomavirus 7 in human thymic epithelial tumors.

Rennspiess D(1), Pujari S, Keijzers M, Abdul-Hamid MA, Hochstenbag M, Dingemans
AM, Kurz AK, Speel EJ, Haugg A, Pastrana DV, Buck CB, De Baets MH, Zur Hausen A.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of *Pathology, †Cardiothoracic Surgery, and ‡Pulmonology,
GROW-School for Oncology and Developmental Biology, Maastricht University Medical
Centre, Maastricht, The Netherlands; §Department of Internal Medicine IV,
University Hospital Aachen, Aachen, Germany; ║Laboratory of Cellular Oncology,
National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, Maryland; and ¶Department of Neuroscience,
Maastricht University, School of Mental Health and Neuroscience (MHeNS),
Maastricht, The Netherlands.

INTRODUCTION: Although the molecular genetics possibly underlying the
pathogenesis of human thymoma have been extensively studied, its etiology remains
poorly understood. Because murine polyomavirus consistently induces thymomas in
mice, we assessed the presence of the novel human polyomavirus 7 (HPyV7) in human
thymic epithelial tumors.
METHODS: HPyV7-DNA Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), DNA-polymerase
chain reaction (PCR), and immunohistochemistry (IHC) were performed in 37
thymomas. Of these, 26 were previously diagnosed with myasthenia gravis (MG). In 
addition, 20 thymic hyperplasias and 20 fetal thymic tissues were tested.
RESULTS: HPyV7-FISH revealed specific nuclear hybridization signals within the
neoplastic epithelial cells of 23 thymomas (62.2%). With some exceptions, the
HPyV7-FISH data correlated with the HPyV7-DNA PCR. By IHC, large T antigen
expression of HPyV7 was detected, and double staining confirmed its expression in
the neoplastic epithelial cells. Eighteen of the 26 MG-positive and 7 of the 11
MG-negative thymomas were HPyV7-positive. Of the 20 hyperplastic thymi, 40% were 
HPyV7-positive by PCR as confirmed by FISH and IHC in the follicular lymphocytes.
All 20 fetal thymi tested HPyV7-negative.
CONCLUSIONS: The presence of HPyV7-DNA and large T antigen expression in the
majority of thymomas possibly link HPyV7 to human thymomagenesis. Further
investigations are needed to elucidate the possible associations of HPyV7 and MG.

PMCID: PMC4304941 [Available on 2016-02-01]
PMID: 25526237  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. PLoS One. 2014 Dec 1;9(12):e110571. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0110571.
eCollection 2014.

Altered active zones, vesicle pools, nerve terminal conductivity, and morphology 
during experimental MuSK myasthenia gravis.

Patel V(1), Oh A(1), Voit A(2), Sultatos LG(1), Babu GJ(2), Wilson BA(3), Ho
M(3), McArdle JJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Physiology, New Jersey Medical School-Rutgers
University, Newark, New Jersey, United States of America. (2)Department Cell
Biology and Molecular Medicine, New Jersey Medical School-Rutgers University,
Newark, New Jersey, United States of America. (3)Department of Microbiology,
University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, Illinois, United States of America.

Recent studies demonstrate reduced motor-nerve function during autoimmune
muscle-specific tyrosine kinase (MuSK) myasthenia gravis (MG). To further
understand the basis of motor-nerve dysfunction during MuSK-MG, we immunized
female C57/B6 mice with purified rat MuSK ectodomain. Nerve-muscle preparations
were dissected and neuromuscular junctions (NMJs) studied electrophysiologically,
morphologically, and biochemically. While all mice produced antibodies to MuSK,
only 40% developed respiratory muscle weakness. In vitro study of respiratory
nerve-muscle preparations isolated from these affected mice revealed that 78% of 
NMJs produced endplate currents (EPCs) with significantly reduced quantal
content, although potentiation and depression at 50 Hz remained qualitatively
normal. EPC and mEPC amplitude variability indicated significantly reduced number
of vesicle-release sites (active zones) and reduced probability of vesicle
release. The readily releasable vesicle pool size and the frequency of large
amplitude mEPCs also declined. The remaining NMJs had intermittent (4%) or
complete (18%) failure of neurotransmitter release in response to 50 Hz nerve
stimulation, presumably due to blocked action potential entry into the nerve
terminal, which may arise from nerve terminal swelling and thinning. Since
MuSK-MG-affected muscles do not express the AChR γ subunit, the observed
prolongation of EPC decay time was not due to inactivity-induced expression of
embryonic acetylcholine receptor, but rather to reduced catalytic activity of
acetylcholinesterase. Muscle protein levels of MuSK did not change. These
findings provide novel insight into the pathophysiology of autoimmune MuSK-MG.

PMCID: PMC4249869
PMID: 25438154  [PubMed - in process]


1. Annu Rev Physiol. 2015;77:251-70. doi: 10.1146/annurev-physiol-021014-071740.
Epub 2014 Nov 5.

Homeostatic control of presynaptic neurotransmitter release.

Davis GW(1), Müller M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of California, San
Francisco, California 94158; email: graeme.davis@ucsf.edu.

It is well established that the active properties of nerve and muscle cells are
stabilized by homeostatic signaling systems. In organisms ranging from Drosophila
to humans, neurons restore baseline function in the continued presence of
destabilizing perturbations by rebalancing ion channel expression, modifying
neurotransmitter receptor surface expression and trafficking, and modulating
neurotransmitter release. This review focuses on the homeostatic modulation of
presynaptic neurotransmitter release, termed presynaptic homeostasis. First, we
highlight criteria that can be used to define a process as being under
homeostatic control. Next, we review the remarkable conservation of presynaptic
homeostasis at the Drosophila, mouse, and human neuromuscular junctions and
emerging parallels at synaptic connections in the mammalian central nervous
system. We then highlight recent progress identifying cellular and molecular
mechanisms. We conclude by reviewing emerging parallels between the mechanisms of
homeostatic signaling and genetic links to neurological disease.

PMID: 25386989  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. J Immunol. 2014 Dec 1;193(11):5515-24. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1401798. Epub 2014
Oct 31.

DBC1 is a suppressor of B cell activation by negatively regulating alternative
NF-κB transcriptional activity.

Kong S(1), Thiruppathi M(2), Qiu Q(1), Lin Z(1), Dong H(3), Chini EN(4),
Prabhakar BS(2), Fang D(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, 
Chicago, IL 60611; (2)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of
Illinois College of Medicine, Chicago, Chicago, IL 60612; (3)Department of
Pathology, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL
60611; Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Northwestern University 
Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL 60611; and. (4)Laboratory of Signal
Transduction, Department of Anesthesiology and Robert and Arlene Kogod Center on 
Aging, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, Rochester, MN 55905. (5)Department of
Pathology, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL
60611; fangd@northwestern.edu.

CD40 and BAFFR signaling play important roles in B cell proliferation and Ig
production. In this study, we found that B cells from mice with deletion of Dbc1 
gene (Dbc1(-/-)) show elevated proliferation, and IgG1 and IgA production upon in
vitro CD40 and BAFF, but not BCR and LPS stimulation, indicating that DBC1
inhibits CD40/BAFF-mediated B cell activation in a cell-intrinsic manner.
Microarray analysis and chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments reveal that
DBC1 inhibits B cell function by selectively suppressing the transcriptional
activity of alternative NF-κB members RelB and p52 upon CD40 stimulation. As a
result, when immunized with nitrophenylated-keyhole limpet hemocyanin, Dbc1(-/-) 
mice produce significantly increased levels of germinal center B cells, plasma
cells, and Ag-specific Ig. Finally, loss of DBC1 in mice leads to higher
susceptibility to experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis. Our study identifies
DBC1 as a novel regulator of B cell activation by suppressing the alternative
NF-κB pathway.

Copyright © 2014 by The American Association of Immunologists, Inc.

PMCID: PMC4259264
PMID: 25362179  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. J Immunol. 2014 Dec 1;193(11):5567-75. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1402013. Epub 2014
Oct 29.

A novel antibody against human factor B that blocks formation of the C3bB
proconvertase and inhibits complement activation in disease models.

Subías M(1), Tortajada A(1), Gastoldi S(2), Galbusera M(2), López-Perrote A(3),
Lopez Lde J(1), González-Fernández FA(4), Villegas-Martínez A(4), Dominguez M(5),
Llorca O(3), Noris M(2), Morgan BP(6), Rodríguez de Córdoba S(7).

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Investigaciones Biológicas, Consejo Superior de Investigaciones
Científicas, Madrid 28040, Spain; Centro de Investigación Biomédica en
Enfermedades Raras, Madrid 28040, Spain; (2)IRCCS - Mario Negri Instituto for
Pharmacological Research "Mario Negri," Clinical Research Center for Rare
Diseases "Aldo e Cele Daccò," Ranica, Bergamo 24020, Italy; "Centro Anna Maria
Astori" Parco Scientifico e Tecnologico Kilometro Rosso, Bergamo 24126, Italy;
(3)Centro de Investigaciones Biológicas, Consejo Superior de Investigaciones
Científicas, Madrid 28040, Spain; (4)Hospital Clínico San Carlos, Universidad
Complutense de Madrid, Madrid 28040, Spain; (5)Servicio de Inmunología
Microbiana, Centro Nacional de Microbiología, Instituto de Investigación Carlos
III, Madrid 28220, Spain; and. (6)Institute of Infection and Immunity, School of 
Medicine, Cardiff University, Cardiff CF14 4XN, United Kingdom. (7)Centro de
Investigaciones Biológicas, Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas,
Madrid 28040, Spain; Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Enfermedades Raras,
Madrid 28040, Spain; srdecordoba@cib.csic.es.

The alternative pathway (AP) is critical for the efficient activation of
complement regardless of the trigger. It is also a major player in pathogenesis, 
as illustrated by the long list of diseases in which AP activation contributes to
pathology. Its relevance to human disease is further emphasized by the high
prevalence of pathogenic inherited defects and acquired autoantibodies disrupting
components and regulators of the AP C3-convertase. Because pharmacological
downmodulation of the AP emerges as a broad-spectrum treatment alternative, there
is a powerful interest in developing new molecules to block formation and/or
activity of the AP C3-convertase. In this paper, we describe the generation of a 
novel mAb targeting human factor B (FB). mAb FB48.4.2, recognizing with high
affinity an evolutionary-conserved epitope in the Ba fragment of FB, very
efficiently inhibited formation of the AP C3-proconvertase by blocking the
interaction between FB and C3b. In vitro assays using rabbit and sheep
erythrocytes demonstrated that FB28.4.2 was a potent AP inhibitor that blocked
complement-mediated hemolysis in several species. Using ex vivo models of disease
we demonstrated that FB28.4.2 protected paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria
erythrocytes from complement-mediated hemolysis and inhibited both C3 fragment
and C5b-9 deposition on ADP-activated HMEC-1 cells, an experimental model for
atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome. Moreover, i.v. injection of FB28.4.2 in rats 
blocked complement activation in rat serum and prevented the passive induction of
experimental autoimmune Myasthenia gravis. As a whole, these data demonstrate the
potential value of FB28.4.2 for the treatment of disorders associated with AP
complement dysregulation in man and animal models.

Copyright © 2014 by The American Association of Immunologists, Inc.

PMID: 25355917  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. J Neurosci. 2014 Oct 15;34(42):13892-905. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1733-14.2014.

LRP4 is critical for neuromuscular junction maintenance.

Barik A(1), Lu Y(1), Sathyamurthy A(1), Bowman A(1), Shen C(1), Li L(1), Xiong
WC(2), Mei L(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience and Regenerative Medicine, Medical College of
Georgia, Georgia Regents University, Augusta, Georgia 30912. (2)Department of
Neuroscience and Regenerative Medicine, Medical College of Georgia, Georgia
Regents University, Augusta, Georgia 30912, Department of Neurology, Medical
College of Georgia, Georgia Regents University, Augusta, Georgia 30912, and
Charlie Norwood Veterans Administration Medical Center, Augusta, Georgia 30904.
(3)Department of Neuroscience and Regenerative Medicine, Medical College of
Georgia, Georgia Regents University, Augusta, Georgia 30912, Department of
Neurology, Medical College of Georgia, Georgia Regents University, Augusta,
Georgia 30912, and Charlie Norwood Veterans Administration Medical Center,
Augusta, Georgia 30904 lmei@gru.edu.

Erratum in
    J Neurosci. 2015 May 13;35(19):7655.

The neuromuscular junction (NMJ) is a synapse between motor neurons and skeletal 
muscle fibers, and is critical for control of muscle contraction. Its formation
requires neuronal agrin that acts by binding to LRP4 to stimulate MuSK. Mutations
have been identified in agrin, MuSK, and LRP4 in patients with congenital
myasthenic syndrome, and patients with myasthenia gravis develop antibodies
against agrin, LRP4, and MuSK. However, it remains unclear whether the agrin
signaling pathway is critical for NMJ maintenance because null mutation of any of
the three genes is perinatal lethal. In this study, we generated imKO mice, a
mutant strain whose LRP4 gene can be deleted in muscles by doxycycline (Dox)
treatment. Ablation of the LRP4 gene in adult muscle enabled studies of its role 
in NMJ maintenance. We demonstrate that Dox treatment of P30 mice reduced muscle 
strength and compound muscle action potentials. AChR clusters became fragmented
with diminished junctional folds and synaptic vesicles. The amplitude and
frequency of miniature endplate potentials were reduced, indicating impaired
neuromuscular transmission and providing cellular mechanisms of adult LRP4
deficiency. We showed that LRP4 ablation led to the loss of synaptic agrin and
the 90 kDa fragments, which occurred ahead of other prejunctional and
postjunctional components, suggesting that LRP4 may regulate the stability of
synaptic agrin. These observations demonstrate that LRP4 is essential for
maintaining the structural and functional integrity of the NMJ and that loss of
muscle LRP4 in adulthood alone is sufficient to cause myasthenic symptoms.

Copyright © 2014 the authors 0270-6474/14/3413892-14$15.00/0.

PMCID: PMC4198535
PMID: 25319686  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. J Neuroimmunol. 2014 Nov 15;276(1-2):150-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jneuroim.2014.09.013. 
Epub 2014 Sep 19.

Expression of extracellular domains of muscle specific kinase (MuSK) and use as
immunoadsorbents for the development of an antigen-specific therapy.

Skriapa L(1), Zisimopoulou P(2), Trakas N(3), Grapsa E(4), Tzartos SJ(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Hellenic Pasteur Institute, Athens, Greece;
Department of Pharmacy, University of Patras, Rio, Greece. (2)Department of
Neurobiology, Hellenic Pasteur Institute, Athens, Greece. Electronic address:
zisimopoulou@pasteur.gr. (3)Department of Neurobiology, Hellenic Pasteur
Institute, Athens, Greece. (4)Department of Nephrology, Aretaieion Hospital,
Athens, Greece. (5)Department of Neurobiology, Hellenic Pasteur Institute,
Athens, Greece; Department of Pharmacy, University of Patras, Rio, Greece.
Electronic address: tzartos@pasteur.gr.

Antibodies against MuSK seem to be the pathogenic factor in approximately 5-8% of
myasthenia gravis (MG) patients. We aim to develop an antigen-specific therapy in
which only MuSK antibodies will be removed from patients' plasma using MuSK
extracellular domain (MuSK-ECD) as immunoadsorbent. We showed that two different 
immunoadsorbents, very efficiently and selectively depleted the MuSK antibodies
from all tested sera, were stable during the procedure and were reusable.
Furthermore, animal experiments showed that the treatment has no toxic effects to
the animals. We conclude that the MuSK-ECD-mediated immunoadsorption can be used 
as an efficient antigen-specific therapy for MuSK-MG.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 25262156  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Curr Opin Neurol. 2014 Oct;27(5):558-65. doi: 10.1097/WCO.0000000000000136.

Clinical and scientific aspects of muscle-specific tyrosine kinase-related
myasthenia gravis.

Reddel SW(1), Morsch M, Phillips WD.

Author information: 
(1)aDepartments of Molecular Medicine & Neurology, Concord Clinical School,
University of Sydney bMotor Neurone Diseases Research Group, Australian School of
Advanced Medicine, Macquarie University cPhysiology and Bosch Institute,
University of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Antibodies to muscle-specific tyrosine kinase (MuSK)
characterize up to 5% of myasthenia gravis patients. This review focuses on the
differences to clinical antiacetylcholine receptor-myasthenia gravis, and on the 
physiology and animal studies that elucidate the role of MuSK and help explain
the clinical disease.
RECENT FINDINGS: MuSK forms the core of a protein complex in the postsynaptic
membrane at the neuromuscular junction. During development, MuSK tyrosine kinase 
signaling is vital for the formation and stabilization of the postsynaptic
endplate; it is now clear that long-term homeostasis of mature neuromuscular
junctions requires MuSK function. Patient MuSK-antibodies are largely of the IgG4
type and in cell culture block the assembly and activation of MuSK kinase. Active
immunization and passive transfer mouse models show reduced postsynaptic
acetylcholine receptors and disturbed synaptic alignment, diminished synaptic
potentials and impaired muscle activation.MuSK myasthenia gravis patients display
particular bulbar and respiratory muscle involvement, with a high rate of
myasthenic crises. Plasma exchange and immunosuppression with corticosteroids and
rituximab appear to be most effective in treating MuSK myasthenia gravis. In
contrast, the cholinesterase inhibitors, such as pyridostigmine, appear less
suitable for this form of myasthenia gravis.
SUMMARY: MuSK myasthenia gravis has distinct clinical and pathophysiological
features.
VIDEO ABSTRACT:

PMID: 25159928  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. J Immunol. 2014 Sep 15;193(6):2669-77. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1303397. Epub 2014
Aug 18.

CD1d(hi)CD5+ B cells expanded by GM-CSF in vivo suppress experimental autoimmune 
myasthenia gravis.

Sheng JR(1), Quan S(2), Soliven B(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL 60637
sheng1@uchicago.edu. (2)Department of Neurology, University of Chicago, Chicago, 
IL 60637.

IL-10-competent subset within CD1d(hi)CD5(+) B cells, also known as B10 cells,
has been shown to regulate autoimmune diseases. Whether B10 cells can prevent or 
suppress the development of experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (EAMG) has 
not been studied. In this study, we investigated whether low-dose GM-CSF, which
suppresses EAMG, can expand B10 cells in vivo, and whether adoptive transfer of
CD1d(hi)CD5(+) B cells would prevent or suppress EAMG. We found that treatment of
EAMG mice with low-dose GM-CSF increased the proportion of CD1d(hi)CD5(+) B cells
and B10 cells. In vitro coculture studies revealed that CD1d(hi)CD5(+) B cells
altered T cell cytokine profile but did not directly inhibit T cell
proliferation. In contrast, CD1d(hi)CD5(+) B cells inhibited B cell proliferation
and its autoantibody production in an IL-10-dependent manner. Adoptive transfer
of CD1d(hi)CD5(+) B cells to mice could prevent disease, as well as suppress EAMG
after disease onset. This was associated with downregulation of mature dendritic 
cell markers and expansion of regulatory T cells resulting in the suppression of 
acetylcholine receptor-specific T cell and B cell responses. Thus, our data have 
provided significant insight into the mechanisms underlying the tolerogenic
effects of B10 cells in EAMG. These observations suggest that in vivo or in vitro
expansion of CD1d(hi)CD5(+) B cells or B10 cells may represent an effective
strategy in the treatment of human myasthenia gravis.

Copyright © 2014 by The American Association of Immunologists, Inc.

PMCID: PMC4167377
PMID: 25135828  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. J Immunol. 2014 Sep 1;193(5):2127-34. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1400857. Epub 2014
Jul 23.

Myeloid-derived suppressor cells as a potential therapy for experimental
autoimmune myasthenia gravis.

Li Y(1), Tu Z(2), Qian S(1), Fung JJ(3), Markowitz SD(4), Kusner LL(5), Kaminski 
HJ(6), Lu L(1), Lin F(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Lerner Research Institute, Cleveland Clinic,
Cleveland, OH 44195; (2)Department of Pathology, Case Western Reserve University,
Cleveland, OH 44106; (3)Department of Surgery, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH
44195; (4)Department of Hematology and Oncology, Case Western Reserve University,
Cleveland, OH 44106; (5)Department of Pharmacology and Physiology, George
Washington University, Washington, DC 20037; and. (6)Department of Pharmacology
and Physiology, George Washington University, Washington, DC 20037; and
Department of Neurology, George Washington University, Washington, DC 20037.
(7)Department of Immunology, Lerner Research Institute, Cleveland Clinic,
Cleveland, OH 44195; Department of Pathology, Case Western Reserve University,
Cleveland, OH 44106; linf2@ccf.org.

We recently demonstrated that hepatic stellate cells induce the differentiation
of myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) from myeloid progenitors. In this
study, we found that adoptive transfer of these MDSCs effectively reversed
disease progression in experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (EAMG), a T
cell-dependent and B cell-mediated model for myasthenia gravis. In addition to
ameliorated disease severity, MDSC-treated EAMG mice showed suppressed
acetylcholine receptor (AChR)-specific T cell responses, decreased levels of
serum anti-AChR IgGs, and reduced complement activation at the neuromuscular
junctions. Incubating MDSCs with B cells activated by anti-IgM or anti-CD40 Abs
inhibited the proliferation of these in vitro-activated B cells. Administering
MDSCs into mice immunized with a T cell-independent Ag inhibited the Ag-specific 
Ab production in vivo. MDSCs directly inhibit B cells through multiple
mechanisms, including PGE2, inducible NO synthase, and arginase. Interestingly,
MDSC treatment in EAMG mice does not appear to significantly inhibit their immune
response to a nonrelevant Ag, OVA. These results demonstrated that hepatic
stellate cell-induced MDSCs concurrently suppress both T and B cell autoimmunity,
leading to effective treatment of established EAMG, and that the MDSCs inhibit
AChR-specific immune responses at least partially in an Ag-specific manner. These
data suggest that MDSCs could be further developed as a novel approach to
treating myasthenia gravis and, even more broadly, other diseases in which T and 
B cells are involved in pathogenesis.

Copyright © 2014 by The American Association of Immunologists, Inc.

PMID: 25057008  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. PLoS One. 2014 Jul 22;9(7):e102231. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0102231.
eCollection 2014.

Survivin as a potential mediator to support autoreactive cell survival in
myasthenia gravis: a human and animal model study.

Kusner LL(1), Ciesielski MJ(2), Marx A(3), Kaminski HJ(4), Fenstermaker RA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Physiology, George Washington University,
Washington, District of Columbia, United States of America. (2)Department of
Neurosurgery, Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Buffalo, New York, United States of 
America; Center for Immunotherapy, Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Buffalo, New
York, United States of America. (3)Institute of Pathology, University Medical
Centre Mannheim, University of Heidelberg, Mannheim, Germany. (4)Department of
Neurology, George Washington University, Washington, District of Columbia, United
States of America.

The mechanisms that underlie the development and maintenance of autoimmunity in
myasthenia gravis are poorly understood. In this investigation, we evaluate the
role of survivin, a member of the inhibitor of apoptosis protein family, in
humans and in two animal models. We identified survivin expression in cells with 
B lymphocyte and plasma cells markers, and in the thymuses of patients with
myasthenia gravis. A portion of survivin-expressing cells specifically bound a
peptide derived from the alpha subunit of acetylcholine receptor indicating that 
they recognize the peptide. Thymuses of patients with myasthenia gravis had large
numbers of survivin-positive cells with fewer cells in the thymuses of
corticosteroid-treated patients. Application of a survivin vaccination strategy
in mouse and rat models of myasthenia gravis demonstrated improved motor
assessment, a reduction in acetylcholine receptor specific autoantibodies, and a 
retention of acetylcholine receptor at the neuromuscular junction, associated
with marked reduction of survivin-expressing circulating CD20+ cells. These data 
strongly suggest that survivin expression in cells with lymphocyte and plasma
cell markers occurs in patients with myasthenia gravis and in two animal models
of myasthenia gravis. Survivin expression may be part of a mechanism that
inhibits the apoptosis of autoreactive B cells in myasthenia gravis and other
autoimmune disorders.

PMCID: PMC4106794
PMID: 25050620  [PubMed - in process]


1. Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci. 2014;18(12):1723-34.

Role of ubiquitin ligase Cbl-b in B-cell activation of dendritic cells loaded
with Tα146-162 in the treatment of experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis in
mice.

Wang R(1), Zhang P, Wang Y, Zhang L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geriatrics, the Second Xiangya Hospital, Central South
University, Changsha, Hunan Province, ChinA. rongwangcn@163.com.

OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to examine the mechanism of Tα146-162-iMDC in the
pathogenic intervention of mice with experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis
(EAMG) from the perspective of B-cell activation.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The mice were divided into three groups, model (A),
intervention (B), and control (C), with the intervention of Tα146-162-iMDC. The
expressions of Cbl-b mRNA, Syk, Lyn, Btk, and phospholipase C (PLC)-γ2 proteins
and their phosphorylated proteins were detected.
RESULTS: The Cbl-b mRNA expression in group A was lower than that in group C (p <
0.01) while that in group B increased compared with that in group A (p < 0.05),
but was lower than that in group C (p < 0.05). The expression and phosphorylation
of Syk and PLC-γ2 proteins in group A increased compared with those in group C (p
< 0.01) while those in group B decreased compared with those in group A (p <
0.05), but were higher than those in group C (p < 0.05). The expression and
phosphorylation of Lyn protein in group A decreased compared with those in group 
C (p < 0.01) while those in group B increased compared with those in group A (p <
0.05), but were lower than those in group C (p < 0.05). The Btk protein
expression in group A increased compared with that in group C (p < 0.01) while
that in group B decreased compared with that in group A (p < 0.05), but was still
higher than that in group C (p < 0.05). However, no difference in phosphorylation
levels among the three groups was observed (p > 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Tα146-162-iMDC intervention can reduce the incidence of EAMG and may
be associated with Cbl-b in the negative regulation of B-cell activation.

PMID: 24992615  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Immunology. 2015 Jan;144(1):56-67. doi: 10.1111/imm.12347.

Silencing miR-146a influences B cells and ameliorates experimental autoimmune
myasthenia gravis.

Zhang J(1), Jia G, Liu Q, Hu J, Yan M, Yang B, Yang H, Zhou W, Li J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Xiangya Hospital, Central South University,
Changsha, Hunan, China.

MicroRNAs have been shown to be important regulators of immune homeostasis as
patients with aberrant microRNA expression appeared to be more susceptible to
autoimmune diseases. We recently found that miR-146a was up-regulated in
activated B cells in response to rat acetylcholine receptor (AChR) α-subunit
97-116 peptide, and this up-regulation was significantly attenuated by
AntagomiR-146a. Our data also demonstrated that silencing miR-146a with its
inhibitor AntagomiR-146a effectively ameliorated clinical myasthenic symptoms in 
mice with ongoing experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis. Furthermore,
multiple defects were observed after miR-146a was knocked down in B cells,
including decreased anti-R97-116 antibody production and class switching, reduced
numbers of plasma cells, memory B cells and B-1 cells, and weakened activation of
B cells. Previously, miR-146a has been identified as a nuclear
factor-κB-dependent gene and predicted to base pair with the tumour necrosis
factor receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) and interleukin-1 receptor-associated
kinase 1 (IRAK1) genes to regulate the immune response. However, our study proved
that miR-146a inhibition had no effect on the expression of TRAF6 and IRAK1 in B 
cells. This result suggests that the function of miR-146a in B cells does not
involve these two target molecules. We conclude that silencing miR-146a exerts
its therapeutic effects by influencing the B-cell functions that contribute to
the autoimmune pathogenesis of myasthenia gravis.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

PMCID: PMC4264910 [Available on 2016-01-01]
PMID: 24962817  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Neuromuscul Disord. 2014 Aug;24(8):726-35. doi: 10.1016/j.nmd.2014.05.001. Epub
2014 May 13.

The decreased expression of thioredoxin-1 in brain of mice with experimental
autoimmune myasthenia gravis.

Chen W(1), Zeng X(2), Luo F(2), Lv T(2), Zhou X(2), Bai J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Environmental Science and Engineering, Kunming University of
Science and Technology, Kunming 650500, China; Medical Faculty, Kunming
University of Science and Technology, Kunming 650500, China; Neurology
Department, First People's Hospital of Yunnan Province, Kunming 650032, China.
(2)Medical Faculty, Kunming University of Science and Technology, Kunming 650500,
China. (3)Medical Faculty, Kunming University of Science and Technology, Kunming 
650500, China. Electronic address: jiebai662001@126.com.

Myasthenia gravis (MG) is an autoimmune disease caused by circulating antibodies 
that block acetylcholine receptor (AchR) at the neuromuscular junction. There is 
the cognitive and memory impairment in patients with MG. However, the molecular
mechanisms underlying the alteration of central nervous system in MG remain
unknown. In the present study, we found that the level of malondialdehyde (MDA)
was increased in the brain of experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (EAMG).
Furthermore, the expression of thioredoxin-1 (Trx-1) and the activity of cAMP
response element-binding protein (CREB) were significantly decreased in frontal
lobe and hippocampus of mice with EAMG. We also found that the expression of
pro-apoptotic C/EBP homologous protein (CHOP) was increased in the frontal lobe
and hippocampus of mice. However, the expressions of glucose regulated protein 78
(GRP78/Bip) was not changed in same areas. Inversely, the expressions of
pro-caspase-12, pro-caspase-3 and pro-caspase-9 were decreased. These data
indicate that Trx-1 mediated endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondria pathways are 
involved in brain damage in MG. Trx-1 may be a pivotal target for brain
protective treatment in MG.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 24878227  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. J Physiol. 2014 Jul 1;592(Pt 13):2881-97. doi: 10.1113/jphysiol.2013.270207. Epub
2014 May 23.

Muscle-specific kinase (MuSK) autoantibodies suppress the MuSK pathway and ACh
receptor retention at the mouse neuromuscular junction.

Ghazanfari N(1), Morsch M(1), Reddel SW(2), Liang SX(3), Phillips WD(4).

Author information: 
(1)Physiology and Bosch Institute, University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales,
2006, Australia. (2)Department of Molecular Medicine, Concord Hospital, Concord, 
New South Wales, 2139, Australia. (3)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular
Biology, College of Basic Medical Sciences, Liaoning Medical University, China.
(4)Physiology and Bosch Institute, University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales,
2006, Australia william.phillips@sydney.edu.au.

Muscle-specific kinase (MuSK) autoantibodies from myasthenia gravis patients can 
block the activation of MuSK in vitro and/or reduce the postsynaptic localization
of MuSK. Here we use a mouse model to examine the effects of MuSK autoantibodies 
upon some key components of the postsynaptic MuSK pathway and upon the regulation
of junctional ACh receptor (AChR) numbers. Mice became weak after 14 daily
injections of anti-MuSK-positive patient IgG. The intensity and area of AChR
staining at the motor endplate was markedly reduced. Pulse-labelling of AChRs
revealed an accelerated loss of pre-existing AChRs from postsynaptic AChR
clusters without a compensatory increase in incorporation of (newly synthesized) 
replacement AChRs. Large, postsynaptic AChR clusters were replaced by a
constellation of tiny AChR microaggregates. Puncta of AChR staining also appeared
in the cytoplasm beneath the endplate. Endplate staining for MuSK, activated Src,
rapsyn and AChR were all reduced in intensity. In the tibialis anterior muscle
there was also evidence that phosphorylation of the AChR β-subunit-Y390 was
reduced at endplates. In contrast, endplate staining for β-dystroglycan (through 
which rapsyn couples AChR to the synaptic basement membrane) remained intense.
The results suggest that anti-MuSK IgG suppresses the endplate density of MuSK,
thereby down-regulating MuSK signalling activity and the retention of junctional 
AChRs locally within the postsynaptic membrane scaffold.

© 2014 The Authors. The Journal of Physiology © 2014 The Physiological Society.

PMCID: PMC4221826
PMID: 24860174  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Neurology. 2014 Jun 3;82(22):1976-83. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000000478. Epub
2014 May 2.

Anti-agrin autoantibodies in myasthenia gravis.

Gasperi C(1), Melms A(1), Schoser B(1), Zhang Y(1), Meltoranta J(1), Risson V(1),
Schaeffer L(1), Schalke B(1), Kröger S(2).

Author information: 
(1)From the Institute for Physiology, Department of Physiological Genomics (C.G.,
Y.Z., J.M., S.K.), and Friedrich-Baur-Institute (B. Schoser), Ludwig-Maximilians 
University, Munich; Department of Neurology (B. Schalke), University of
Regensburg; Department of Neurology (A.M.), University of Tübingen, Germany; and 
Laboratory of Molecular Biology of the Cell (V.R., L.S.), University of Lyon,
France. A.M. is currently affiliated with the Department of Neurology, University
Hospital Erlangen, Germany. (2)From the Institute for Physiology, Department of
Physiological Genomics (C.G., Y.Z., J.M., S.K.), and Friedrich-Baur-Institute (B.
Schoser), Ludwig-Maximilians University, Munich; Department of Neurology (B.
Schalke), University of Regensburg; Department of Neurology (A.M.), University of
Tübingen, Germany; and Laboratory of Molecular Biology of the Cell (V.R., L.S.), 
University of Lyon, France. A.M. is currently affiliated with the Department of
Neurology, University Hospital Erlangen, Germany. skroeger@LMU.de.

Comment in
    Neurology. 2015 Jan 13;84(2):214-5.
    Neurology. 2014 Jun 3;82(22):1942-3.

OBJECTIVE: Because the extracellular matrix protein agrin is essential for
neuromuscular junction formation and maintenance, we tested the hypothesis that
autoantibodies against agrin are present in sera from patients with myasthenia
gravis (MG).
METHODS: We determined the presence of anti-agrin antibodies in 54 sera from
patients with generalized MG using a solid-phase ELISA with purified mini-agrin
protein. Thirty of the 54 sera were seronegative for antibodies against the
acetylcholine receptor (AChR) or muscle-specific tyrosine kinase (MuSK), 15 had
elevated levels of anti-MuSK, and 9 had elevated levels of anti-AChR
autoantibodies. Sixteen sera from healthy volunteers served as control.
RESULTS: Five sera with elevated levels of anti-agrin antibodies were identified.
The concentration of the antibodies ranged between 0.04 and 0.12 nM. Four of the 
5 agrin-positive sera were also positive for anti-MuSK, one was positive for
anti-AChR, and 2 had elevated levels of anti-low-density lipoprotein
receptor-related protein 4 (LRP4) autoantibodies. Some of the sera stained adult 
mouse neuromuscular junctions and reacted with native mini-agrin expressed in
293HEK cells.
CONCLUSIONS: The results provide evidence for agrin as a novel target protein for
autoantibodies in patients with MG. Anti-agrin antibodies were always detected in
combination with autoantibodies against MuSK, LRP4, or AChRs, indicating a high
incidence of autoantibodies against several neuromuscular proteins in the
agrin-positive MG cases.

© 2014 American Academy of Neurology.

PMID: 24793185  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Orphanet J Rare Dis. 2014 Apr 11;9:50. doi: 10.1186/1750-1172-9-50.

Sweet taste loss in myasthenia gravis: more than a coincidence?

Chabwine JN, Tschirren MV, Zekeridou A, Landis BN, Kuntzer T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Lausanne University Hospital (CHUV), Rue
du Bugnon 46, 1011 Lausanne, Switzerland. thierry.kuntzer@chuv.ch.

Sweet dysgeusia, a rare taste disorder, may be encountered in severe
anti-acetylcholine receptor antibody (AChRAb)-myasthenia gravis (MG). A 42
year-old man reported progressive loss of sweet taste evolving for almost 10
weeks, revealing an AChRAb-positive MG with thymoma. Improvement of sweet
perception paralleled reduction of the MG composite score during the 15 months
follow up period, with immunosuppressive and surgical treatments. We suggest that
sweet dysgeusia is a non-motor manifestation of MG that may result from a
thymoma-dependent autoimmune mechanism targeting gustducin-positive
G-protein-coupled taste receptor cells, in line with recent data from MRL/MpJ-Fas
lpr/ (MRL/lpr) transgenic mice with autoimmune disease.

PMCID: PMC3991876
PMID: 24725416  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Neuromuscul Disord. 2014 Jun;24(6):499-508. doi: 10.1016/j.nmd.2014.02.010. Epub 
2014 Mar 6.

The effects of prednisone and steroid-sparing agents on decay accelerating factor
(CD55) expression: implications in myasthenia gravis.

Auret J(1), Abrahams A(1), Prince S(2), Heckmann JM(3).

Author information: 
(1)Neurology Research Group, Department of Medicine, University of Cape Town,
Cape Town, South Africa; Cell Biology, Department of Human Biology, University of
Cape Town, Cape Town, South Africa. (2)Cell Biology, Department of Human Biology,
University of Cape Town, Cape Town, South Africa. (3)Neurology Research Group,
Department of Medicine, University of Cape Town, Cape Town, South Africa.
Electronic address: Jeanine.heckmann@uct.ac.za.

Decay accelerating factor (DAF) expression at the muscle endplate is an important
defence against complement-mediated damage in myasthenia gravis. Previously we
implicated the c.-198C>G DAF polymorphism with the development of
treatment-resistant myasthenia-associated ophthalmoplegia by showing that the C>G
DAF polymorphism prevented lipopolysaccharide-induced upregulation of lymphoblast
DAF. We postulated that drugs used in myasthenia gravis may increase the
susceptibility of extraocular muscles to complement-mediated damage and studied
their effects on endogenous DAF using patient-derived lymphoblasts as well as
mouse myotubes. We show that prednisone repressed C>G DAF expression in
lymphoblasts and increased their susceptibility to cytotoxicity. Methotrexate,
but not azathioprine or cyclosporine, increased DAF in C>G lymphoblasts. In mouse
myotubes expressing wild-type Daf, prednisone also repressed Daf expression.
Although cyclosporine, azathioprine, and methotrexate increased muscle Daf levels
when used alone, upon co-treatment with prednisone only azathioprine maintained
myotube Daf levels close to basal. Therefore, prednisone negatively influences
DAF expression in C>G lymphoblasts and in myotubes expressing wild-type Daf. We
speculate that myasthenic individuals at risk of developing the ophthalmoplegic
complication, such as those with C>G DAF, may have inadequate endogenous levels
of complement regulatory protein protection in their extraocular muscle in
response to prednisone, increasing their susceptibility to complement-mediated
damage.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 24703255  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Dev Neurobiol. 2014 Oct;74(10):953-71. doi: 10.1002/dneu.22178. Epub 2014 Apr 17.

The MAP1B case: an old MAP that is new again.

Villarroel-Campos D(1), Gonzalez-Billault C.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Cell and Neuronal Dynamics (Cenedyn), Department of Biology,
Faculty of Sciences, Universidad de Chile, Santiago, Chile.

The functions of microtubule-associated protein 1B (MAP1B) have historically been
linked to the development of the nervous system, based on its very early
expression in neurons and glial cells. Moreover, mice in which MAP1B is
genetically inactivated have been used extensively to show its role in axonal
elongation, neuronal migration, and axonal guidance. In the last few years, it
has become apparent that MAP1B has other cellular and molecular functions that
are not related to its microtubule-stabilizing properties in the embryonic and
adult brain. In this review, we present a systematic review of the canonical and 
novel functions of MAP1B and propose that, in addition to regulating the
polymerization of microtubule and actin microfilaments, MAP1B also acts as a
signaling protein involved in normal physiology and pathological conditions in
the nervous system.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

PMID: 24700609  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Clin Immunol. 2014 Apr;151(2):155-63. doi: 10.1016/j.clim.2014.02.012. Epub 2014 
Feb 28.

Preferential production of IgG1, IL-4 and IL-10 in MuSK-immunized mice.

Ulusoy C(1), Kim E(2), Tüzün E(3), Huda R(2), Yılmaz V(4), Poulas K(5), Trakas
N(6), Skriapa L(7), Niarchos A(5), Strait RT(8), Finkelman FD(9), Turan S(1),
Zisimopoulou P(6), Tzartos S(7), Saruhan-Direskeneli G(4), Christadoss P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Institute for Experimental Medical Research,
University of Istanbul, Istanbul 34393, Turkey. (2)Department of Microbiology and
Immunology, University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, TX 77555, USA.
(3)Department of Neuroscience, Institute for Experimental Medical Research,
University of Istanbul, Istanbul 34393, Turkey. Electronic address:
drerdem@yahoo.com. (4)Department of Physiology, Istanbul Faculty of Medicine,
University of Istanbul, Istanbul 34393, Turkey. (5)Department of Pharmacy, School
of Health Sciences, University of Patras, Patras 26504, Greece. (6)Hellenic
Pasteur Institute, Athens 115 21, Greece. (7)Department of Pharmacy, School of
Health Sciences, University of Patras, Patras 26504, Greece; Hellenic Pasteur
Institute, Athens 115 21, Greece. (8)Department of Pediatrics and Cincinnati
Children's Hospital Division of Emergency Medicine, College of Medicine,
University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH 45229, USA. (9)Department of Medicine,
Cincinnati Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH 45229, USA; Department
of Internal Medicine, College of Medicine, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, 
OH 45229, USA; Division of Immunobiology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical 
Center, Cincinnati, OH 45229, USA.

Myasthenia gravis (MG) is an autoimmune disease characterized by muscle weakness 
associated with acetylcholine receptor (AChR), muscle-specific receptor kinase
(MuSK) or low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 4 (LRP4)-antibodies.
MuSK-antibodies are predominantly of the non-complement fixing IgG4 isotype. The 
MuSK associated experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (EAMG) model was
established in mice to investigate immunoglobulin (Ig) and cytokine responses
related with MuSK immunity. C57BL/6 (B6) mice immunized with 30μg of recombinant 
human MuSK in incomplete or complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) showed significant
EAMG susceptibility (>80% incidence). Although mice immunized with 10μg of MuSK
had lower EAMG incidence (14.3%), serum MuSK-antibody levels were comparable to
mice immunized with 30μg MuSK. While MuSK immunization stimulated production of
all antibody isotypes, non-complement fixing IgG1 was the dominant anti-MuSK Ig
isotype in both sera and neuromuscular junctions. Moreover, MuSK immunized IgG1
knockout mice showed very low serum MuSK-antibody levels. Sera and
MuSK-stimulated lymph node cell supernatants of MuSK immunized mice showed
significantly higher levels of IL-4 and IL-10 (but not IFN-γ and IL-12), than
those of CFA immunized mice. Our results suggest that through activation of
Th2-type cells, anti-MuSK immunity promotes production of IL-4, which in turn
activates anti-MuSK IgG1, the mouse analog of human IgG4. These findings might
provide clues for the pathogenesis of other IgG4-related diseases as well as
development of disease specific treatment methods (e.g. specific IgG4 inhibitors)
for MuSK-related MG.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 24589747  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. PLoS One. 2014 Feb 25;9(2):e90187. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0090187. eCollection
2014.

Crosslinking-induced endocytosis of acetylcholine receptors by quantum dots.

Lee CW(1), Zhang H(2), Geng L(3), Peng HB(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Life Science, State Key Laboratory of Molecular Neuroscience, The 
Hong Kong University of Science & Technology, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, China ;
Department of Physiology, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National University of
Singapore, Singapore. (2)Division of Life Science, State Key Laboratory of
Molecular Neuroscience, The Hong Kong University of Science & Technology, Clear
Water Bay, Hong Kong, China. (3)Division of Life Science, State Key Laboratory of
Molecular Neuroscience, The Hong Kong University of Science & Technology, Clear
Water Bay, Hong Kong, China ; Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, The 
University of Hong Kong, Pok Fu Lam, Hong Kong, China.

In a majority of patients with myasthenia gravis (MG), anti-acetylcholine
receptor (AChR) antibodies target postsynaptic AChR clusters and thus compromise 
the membrane integrity of neuromuscular junctions (NMJs) and lead to muscle
weakness. Antibody-induced endocytosis of AChRs in the postsynaptic membrane
represents the initial step in the pathogenesis of MG; however, the molecular
mechanisms underlying AChR endocytosis remain largely unknown. Here, we developed
an approach to mimic the pathogenic antibodies for inducing the crosslinking and 
internalization of AChRs from the postsynaptic membrane. Using
biotin-α-bungarotoxin and quantum dot (QD)-streptavidin, cell-surface and
internalized AChRs could be readily distinguished by comparing the size,
fluorescence intensity, trajectory, and subcellular localization of the QD
signals. QD-induced AChR endocytosis was mediated by clathrin-dependent and
caveolin-independent mechanisms, and the trafficking of internalized AChRs in the
early endosomes required the integrity of microtubule structures. Furthermore,
activation of the agrin/MuSK (muscle-specific kinase) signaling pathway strongly 
suppressed QD-induced internalization of AChRs. Lastly, QD-induced AChR
crosslinking potentiated the dispersal of aneural AChR clusters upon synaptic
induction. Taken together, our results identify a novel approach to study the
mechanisms of AChR trafficking upon receptor crosslinking and endocytosis, and
demonstrate that agrin-MuSK signaling pathways protect against
crosslinking-induced endocytosis of AChRs.

PMCID: PMC3934987
PMID: 24587270  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. PLoS One. 2014 Feb 5;9(2):e87840. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0087840. eCollection 
2014.

Effects of the ß2-adrenoceptor agonist, albuterol, in a mouse model of anti-MuSK 
myasthenia gravis.

Ghazanfari N(1), Morsch M(1), Tse N(1), Reddel SW(2), Phillips WD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Physiology and Bosch Institute, University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia. (2)Department of Molecular Medicine, Concord Hospital, Concord, New
South Wales, Australia.

The β2-adrenergic receptor agonist, albuterol, has been reported beneficial in
treating several forms of congenital myasthenia. Here, for the first time, we
examined the potential benefit of albuterol in a mouse model of anti-Muscle
Specific Kinase (MuSK) myasthenia gravis. Mice received 15 daily injections of
IgG from anti-MuSK positive patients, which resulted in whole-body weakness. At
neuromuscular junctions in the tibialis anterior and diaphragm muscles the
autoantibodies caused loss of postsynaptic acetylcholine receptors, and reduced
the amplitudes of the endplate potential and spontaneous miniature endplate
potential in the diaphragm muscle. Treatment with albuterol (8 mg/kg/day) during 
the two-week anti-MuSK injection series reduced the degree of weakness and weight
loss, compared to vehicle-treated mice. However, the compound muscle action
potential recorded from the gastrocnemius muscle displayed a decremental response
in anti-MuSK-injected mice whether treated with albuterol or vehicle. Ongoing
albuterol treatment did not increase endplate potential amplitudes compared to
vehicle-treated mice nor did it prevent the loss of acetylcholine receptors from 
motor endplates. On the other hand, albuterol treatment significantly reduced the
degree of fragmentation of endplate acetylcholine receptor clusters and increased
the extent to which the remaining receptor clusters were covered by
synaptophysin-stained nerve terminals. The results provide the first evidence
that short-term albuterol treatment can ameliorate weakness in a robust mouse
model of anti-MuSK myasthenia gravis. The results also demonstrate that it is
possible for albuterol treatment to reduce whole-body weakness without
necessarily reversing myasthenic impairment to the structure and function of the 
neuromuscular junction.

PMCID: PMC3914858
PMID: 24505322  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. J Autoimmun. 2014 Aug;52:36-43. doi: 10.1016/j.jaut.2013.12.017. Epub 2014 Jan
11.

Tissue plasminogen activator involvement in experimental autoimmune myasthenia
gravis: aggravation and therapeutic potential.

Gur-Wahnon D(1), Mizrachi T(2), Wald-Altman S(3), Al-Roof Higazi A(4), Brenner
T(5).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neuroimmunology, Department of Neurology, The Agnes Ginges
Center for Human Neurogenetics, Hadassah-Hebrew University Medical Center, PO Box
12000, Jerusalem, Israel. Electronic address: devorah.gur-wahnon@mail.huji.ac.il.
(2)Laboratory of Neuroimmunology, Department of Neurology, The Agnes Ginges
Center for Human Neurogenetics, Hadassah-Hebrew University Medical Center, PO Box
12000, Jerusalem, Israel. Electronic address: tehilati@gmail.com. (3)Laboratory
of Neuroimmunology, Department of Neurology, The Agnes Ginges Center for Human
Neurogenetics, Hadassah-Hebrew University Medical Center, PO Box 12000,
Jerusalem, Israel. Electronic address: shane.wald@mail.huji.ac.il. (4)Department 
of Biochemistry, Hadassah-Hebrew University Medical Center, Jerusalem, Israel.
Electronic address: abdh@ekmd.huji.ac.il. (5)Laboratory of Neuroimmunology,
Department of Neurology, The Agnes Ginges Center for Human Neurogenetics,
Hadassah-Hebrew University Medical Center, PO Box 12000, Jerusalem, Israel.
Electronic address: Brenner@cc.huji.ac.il.

Tissue plasminogen activator (tPA), a component of the PA/plasmin system, is
elevated in inflammatory areas and plays a role in inflammatory neurological
disorders. In the present study we explored the involvement of tPA and the
potential immunomodulatory activity of tPA in experimental autoimmune myasthenia 
gravis (EAMG). Mice deficient in tPA (tPA(-/-)) present with a markedly more
severe disease than wild type EAMG mice. In an attempt to treat EAMG with an 18aa
peptide derived from the PA system inhibitor (PAI-1), designed to tether out the 
endogenous inhibitor, a significant suppression of disease severity was
demonstrated. The more severe disease in tPA(-/-) mice was accompanied by a
higher level of anti-AChR antibodies and increased expression of B-cell markers. 
In view of the essential role of B-cell activating factor (BAFF) in B-cell
maturation, the expression of BAFF family components was tested. An increase in
BAFF and BAFF receptor was observed in EAMG tPA(-/-) mice, whereas BCMA
expression was reduced, consistent with the increased level of pathogenic
antibodies and the more severe disease. Given the importance of T regulatory
cells (Tregs) in EAMG, they were evaluated and their number was reduced in
tPA(-/-) mice, in which EAMG was aggravated, whereas following PAI-1dp treatment,
Tregs were replenished and the disease was ameliorated. The results show the
involvement of tPA in EAMG, implying a protective role for tPA in EAMG
pathogenesis. The amelioration of EAMG by PAI-1dp treatment suggests that the PA 
system may be considered a potential site for therapeutic intervention in
neuroimmune diseases.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 24423642  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. J Autoimmun. 2014 Aug;52:44-52. doi: 10.1016/j.jaut.2013.12.016. Epub 2014 Jan 3.

Central role of interferon-beta in thymic events leading to myasthenia gravis.

Cufi P(1), Dragin N(1), Ruhlmann N(2), Weiss JM(1), Fadel E(3), Serraf A(4),
Berrih-Aknin S(1), Le Panse R(5).

Author information: 
(1)INSERM U974, Paris, France; CNRS UMR 7215, Paris, France; UPMC Univ Paris 6,
Paris, France; AIM, Institute of Myology, Paris, France. (2)INSERM U974, Paris,
France; CNRS UMR 7215, Paris, France; UPMC Univ Paris 6, Paris, France. (3)Marie 
Lannelongue Hospital, Paris-Sud University, Le Plessis-Robinson, France. (4)Marie
Lannelongue Hospital, Paris-Sud University, Le Plessis-Robinson, France; Jacques 
Cartier Hospital, Massy, France. (5)INSERM U974, Paris, France; CNRS UMR 7215,
Paris, France; UPMC Univ Paris 6, Paris, France; AIM, Institute of Myology,
Paris, France. Electronic address: rozen.lepanse@upmc.fr.

The thymus plays a primary role in early-onset Myasthenia Gravis (MG) mediated by
anti-acetylcholine receptor (AChR) antibodies. As we recently showed an
inflammatory and anti-viral signature in MG thymuses, we investigated in detail
the contribution of interferon (IFN)-I and IFN-III subtypes in thymic changes
associated with MG. We showed that IFN-I and IFN-III subtypes, but especially
IFN-β, induced specifically α-AChR expression in thymic epithelial cells (TECs). 
We also demonstrated that IFN-β increased TEC death and the uptake of TEC
proteins by dendritic cells. In parallel, we showed that IFN-β increased the
expression of the chemokines CXCL13 and CCL21 by TECs and lymphatic endothelial
cells, respectively. These two chemokines are involved in germinal center (GC)
development and overexpressed in MG thymus with follicular hyperplasia. We also
demonstrated that the B-cell activating factor (BAFF), which favors autoreactive 
B-cells, was overexpressed by TECs in MG thymus and was also induced by IFN-β in 
TEC cultures. Some of IFN-β effects were down-regulated when cell cultures were
treated with glucocorticoids, a treatment widely used in MG patients that
decreases the number of thymic GCs. Similar changes were observed in vivo. The
injections of Poly(I:C) to C57BL/6 mice triggered a thymic overexpression of
IFN-β and IFN-α2 associated with increased expressions of CXCL13, CCL21, BAFF,
and favored the recruitment of B cells. These changes were not observed in the
thymus of IFN-I receptor KO mice injected with Poly(I:C), even if IFN-β and
IFN-α2 were overexpressed. Altogether, these results demonstrate that IFN-β could
play a central role in thymic events leading to MG by triggering the
overexpression of α-AChR probably leading to thymic DC autosensitization, the
abnormal recruitment of peripheral cells and GC formation.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 24393484  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. J Autoimmun. 2014 Aug;52:64-73. doi: 10.1016/j.jaut.2013.12.014. Epub 2014 Jan 2.

Recombinant IgG2a Fc (M045) multimers effectively suppress experimental
autoimmune myasthenia gravis.

Thiruppathi M(1), Sheng JR(1), Li L(1), Prabhakar BS(2), Meriggioli MN(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, College of Medicine, University of 
Illinois Hospital and Health Sciences System, Chicago, IL 60612, USA; Department 
of Neurology and Rehabilitation, College of Medicine, University of Illinois
Hospital and Health Sciences System, Chicago, IL 60612, USA. (2)Department of
Microbiology and Immunology, College of Medicine, University of Illinois Hospital
and Health Sciences System, Chicago, IL 60612, USA. (3)Novartis Institutes for
Biomedical Research, 220 Massachusetts Ave, Building 600, 304C, Cambridge, MA
02139, USA. Electronic address: matthew.meriggioli@novartis.com.

Myasthenia gravis (MG) is an autoimmune disorder caused by target-specific
pathogenic antibodies directed toward postsynaptic neuromuscular junction (NMJ)
proteins, most commonly the skeletal muscle nicotinic acetylcholine receptor
(AChR). In MG, high-affinity anti-AChR Abs binding to the NMJ lead to loss of
functional AChRs, culminating in neuromuscular transmission failure and
myasthenic symptoms. Intravenous immune globulin (IVIg) has broad therapeutic
application in the treatment of a range of autoimmune diseases, including MG,
although its mechanism of action is not clear. Recently, the anti-inflammatory
and anti-autoimmune activities of IVIg have been attributed to the IgG Fc
domains. Soluble immune aggregates bearing intact Fc fragments have been shown to
be effective treatment for a number of autoimmune disorders in mice, and fully
recombinant multimeric Fc molecules have been shown to be effective in treating
collagen-induced arthritis, murine immune thrombocytopenic purpura, and
experimental inflammatory neuritis. In this study, a murine model of MG (EAMG)
was used to study the effectiveness of this novel recombinant polyvalent IgG2a Fc
(M045) in treating established myasthenia, with a direct comparison to treatment 
with IVIg. M045 treatment had profound effects on the clinical course of EAMG,
accompanied by down-modulation of pathogenic antibody responses. These effects
were associated with reduced B cell activation and T cell proliferative responses
to AChR, an expansion in the population of FoxP3(+) regulatory T cells, and
enhanced production of suppressive cytokines, such as IL-10. Treatment was at
least as effective as IVIg in suppressing EAMG, even at doses 25-30 fold lower.
Multimeric Fc molecules offer the advantages of being recombinant, homogenous,
available in unlimited quantity, free of risk from infection and effective at
significantly reduced protein loads, and may represent a viable therapeutic
alternative to polyclonal IVIg.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMCID: PMC4518541
PMID: 24388113  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Clin Exp Immunol. 2014 May;176(2):207-21. doi: 10.1111/cei.12265.

Delivery of an miR155 inhibitor by anti-CD20 single-chain antibody into B cells
reduces the acetylcholine receptor-specific autoantibodies and ameliorates
experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis.

Wang YZ(1), Tian FF, Yan M, Zhang JM, Liu Q, Lu JY, Zhou WB, Yang H, Li J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, Changsha,
China.

MicroRNA-155 (miR155) is required for antibody production after vaccination with 
attenuated Salmonella. miR155-deficient B cells generated reduced germinal centre
responses and failed to produce high-affinity immunoglobulin (Ig)G1 antibodies.
In this study, we observed up-regulation of miR155 in the peripheral blood
mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of patients with myasthenia gravis (MG), and miR155 was
also up-regulated in torpedo acetylcholine receptor (T-AChR)-stimulated B cells. 
We used an inhibitor of miR155 conjugated to anti-CD20 single-chain antibody to
treat both the cultured B cells and the experimental autoimmune MG (EAMG) mice.
Our results demonstrated that silencing of miR155 by its inhibitor impaired the B
cell-activating factor (BAFF)-R-related signalling pathway and reduced the
translocation of nuclear factor (NF)-κB into the nucleus. Additionally,
AChR-specific autoantibodies were reduced, which may be related to the altered
amounts of marginal zone B cells and memory B cells in the spleens of EAMG mice. 
Our study suggests that miR155 may be a promising target for the clinical therapy
of MG.

© 2014 British Society for Immunology.

PMCID: PMC3992033
PMID: 24387321  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. PLoS One. 2013 Dec 20;8(12):e84791. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0084791.
eCollection 2013.

Expression of a highly antigenic and native-like folded extracellular domain of
the human α1 subunit of muscle nicotinic acetylcholine receptor, suitable for use
in antigen specific therapies for Myasthenia Gravis.

Niarchos A(1), Zouridakis M(2), Douris V(3), Georgostathi A(1), Kalamida D(1),
Sotiriadis A(2), Poulas K(1), Iatrou K(3), Tzartos SJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy, University of Patras, Patras, Greece. (2)Department of
Biochemistry, Hellenic Pasteur Institute, Athens, Greece. (3)Institute of
Biosciences and Applications, National Centre for Scientific Research
"Demokritos", Athens, Greece. (4)Department of Pharmacy, University of Patras,
Patras, Greece ; Department of Biochemistry, Hellenic Pasteur Institute, Athens, 
Greece.

We describe the expression of the extracellular domain of the human α1 nicotinic 
acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) in lepidopteran insect cells (i-α1-ECD) and its
suitability for use in antigen-specific therapies for Myasthenia Gravis (MG).
Compared to the previously expressed protein in P. pastoris (y-α1-ECD), i-α1-ECD 
had a 2-fold increased expression yield, bound anti-nAChR monoclonal antibodies
and autoantibodies from MG patients two to several-fold more efficiently and
resulted in a secondary structure closer to that of the crystal structure of
mouse α1-ECD. Our results indicate that i-α1-ECD is an improved protein for use
in antigen-specific MG therapeutic strategies.

PMCID: PMC3869910
PMID: 24376846  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Mol Cell Neurosci. 2014 Jan;58:85-94. doi: 10.1016/j.mcn.2013.12.006. Epub 2013
Dec 17.

RNA interference targeting Bcl-6 ameliorates experimental autoimmune myasthenia
gravis in mice.

Xin N(1), Fu L(2), Shao Z(1), Guo M(1), Zhang X(1), Zhang Y(3), Dou C(1), Zheng
S(1), Shen X(4), Yao Y(5), Wang J(1), Wang J(1), Cui G(1), Liu Y(1), Geng D(1),
Xiao C(1), Zhang Z(1), Dong R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, The Affiliated Hospital of Xuzhou Medical College,
Xuzhou, Jiangsu, China. (2)Department of Pathogenic Biology and Lab of Infection 
and Immunology, Xuzhou Medical College, Xuzhou, Jiangsu, China. (3)Department of 
Neurology, The Affiliated Hospital of Xuzhou Medical College, Xuzhou, Jiangsu,
China. Electronic address: zy20037416@163.com. (4)Department of Neurology, The
Affiliated Hospital of Xuzhou Medical College, Xuzhou, Jiangsu, China. Electronic
address: xiashenxuyi@163.com. (5)Department of Radiation Therapy, The Affiliated 
Hospital of Xuzhou Medical College, Xuzhou, Jiangsu, China.

Follicular helper T (Tfh) cells are dedicated to providing help to B cells and
are strongly associated with antibody-mediated autoimmune disease. B cell
lymphoma 6 (Bcl-6) is a key transcription factor of Tfh cells, and IL-21 is known
to be a critical cytokine produced by Tfh cells. We silenced Bcl-6 gene
expression using RNA interference (RNAi) delivered by a lentiviral vector, to
evaluate the therapeutic role of Bcl-6 short hairpin RNAs (shRNAs) in
experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (EAMG). Our data demonstrate that
CD4(+)CXCR5(+)PD-1(+) Tfh cells, Bcl-6 and IL-21 were significantly increased in 
EAMG mice, compared with controls. In addition, we found that frequencies of Tfh 
cells were positively correlated with the levels of serum anti-AChR Ab. In-vivo
transduction of lenti-siRNA-Bcl6 ameliorates the severity of ongoing EAMG with
decreased Tfh cells, Bcl-6 and IL-21 expression, and leads to decreased anti-AChR
antibody levels. Furthermore, we found that siRNA knockdown of Bcl-6 expression
increases the expression of Th1(IFN-γ, T-bet) and Th2 markers (IL-4 and GATA3),
but failed to alter the expression of Th17-related markers (RORγt, IL-17) and
Treg markers (FoxP3). Our study suggests that Tfh cells contribute to the
antibody production and could be one of the most important T cell subsets
responsible for development and progression of EAMG or MG. Bcl-6 provides a
promising therapeutic target for immunotherapy not only for MG, but also for
other antibody-mediated autoimmune diseases.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 24361642  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2013 Dec 17;110(51):20783-8. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1313944110. Epub 2013 Dec 2.

MuSK IgG4 autoantibodies cause myasthenia gravis by inhibiting binding between
MuSK and Lrp4.

Huijbers MG(1), Zhang W, Klooster R, Niks EH, Friese MB, Straasheijm KR, Thijssen
PE, Vrolijk H, Plomp JJ, Vogels P, Losen M, Van der Maarel SM, Burden SJ,
Verschuuren JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Department of Human Genetics and Department of
Molecular Cell Biology, Leiden University Medical Center, 2333 ZA, Leiden, The
Netherlands.

Myasthenia gravis (MG) is a severely debilitating autoimmune disease that is due 
to a decrease in the efficiency of synaptic transmission at neuromuscular
synapses. MG is caused by antibodies against postsynaptic proteins, including (i)
acetylcholine receptors, the neurotransmitter receptor, (ii) muscle-specific
kinase (MuSK), a receptor tyrosine kinase essential for the formation and
maintenance of neuromuscular synapses, and (iii) low-density lipoprotein
receptor-related protein 4 (Lrp4), which responds to neural Agrin by binding and 
stimulating MuSK. Passive transfer studies in mice have shown that IgG4
antibodies from MuSK MG patients cause disease without requiring complement or
other immune components, suggesting that these MuSK antibodies cause disease by
directly interfering with MuSK function. Here we show that pathogenic IgG4
antibodies to MuSK bind to a structural epitope in the first Ig-like domain of
MuSK, prevent binding between MuSK and Lrp4, and inhibit Agrin-stimulated MuSK
phosphorylation. In contrast, these IgG4 antibodies have no direct effect on MuSK
dimerization or MuSK internalization. These results provide insight into the
unique pathogenesis of MuSK MG and provide clues toward development of specific
treatment options.

PMCID: PMC3870730
PMID: 24297891  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. J Mol Neurosci. 2014 Jul;53(3):359-61. doi: 10.1007/s12031-013-0170-x.

Collagen Q is a key player for developing rational therapy for congenital
myasthenia and for dissecting the mechanisms of anti-MuSK myasthenia gravis.

Ohno K, Ito M, Kawakami Y, Ohtsuka K.

Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) at the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) is anchored to
the synaptic basal lamina via a triple helical collagen Q (ColQ) in the form of
asymmetric AChE (AChE/ColQ). We exploited the proprietary NMJ-targeting signals
of ColQ to treat congenital myasthenia and to explore the mechanisms of
autoimmune myasthenia gravis (MG). Mutations in COLQ cause congenital endplate
AChE deficiency (CEAD). First, a single intravenous administration of
adeno-associated virus serotype 8 (AAV8)-COLQ to Colq−/− mice normalized motor
functions, synaptic transmission, and partly the NMJ ultrastructure.
Additionally, injection of purified recombinant AChE/ColQ protein complex into
gluteus maximus accumulated AChE in non-injected forelimbs. Second, MuSK
antibody-positive MG accounts for 5-15 % of MG. In vitro overlay of AChE/ColQ to 
muscle sections of Colq−/− mice, as well as in vitro plate-binding of MuSK to
ColQ, revealed thatMuSK-IgG blocks binding of ColQ to MuSK in a dose-dependent
manner. Passive transfer of MuSK-IgG to wild-type mice markedly reduced the size 
and intensity of ColQ signals at NMJs. MuSK-IgG thus interferes with binding of
ColQ to MuSK. Elucidation of molecular mechanisms of specific binding of ColQ to 
NMJ enabled us to ameliorate devastating myasthenic symptoms of Colq−/− mice and 
also to reveal underlying mechanisms of anti-MuSK-MG.

PMID: 24234034  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. J Clin Invest. 2013 Dec;123(12):5190-202. doi: 10.1172/JCI66039. Epub 2013 Nov 8.

Antibodies against low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 4 induce
myasthenia gravis.

Shen C, Lu Y, Zhang B, Figueiredo D, Bean J, Jung J, Wu H, Barik A, Yin DM, Xiong
WC, Mei L.

Myasthenia gravis (MG) is the most common disorder affecting the neuromuscular
junction (NMJ). MG is frequently caused by autoantibodies against acetylcholine
receptor (AChR) and a kinase critical for NMJ formation, MuSK; however, a
proportion of MG patients are double-negative for anti-AChR and anti-MuSK
antibodies. Recent studies in these subjects have identified autoantibodies
against low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 4 (LRP4), an agrin
receptor also critical for NMJ formation. LRP4 autoantibodies have not previously
been implicated in MG pathogenesis. Here we demonstrate that mice immunized with 
the extracellular domain of LRP4 generated anti-LRP4 antibodies and exhibited
MG-associated symptoms, including muscle weakness, reduced compound muscle action
potentials (CMAPs), and compromised neuromuscular transmission. Additionally,
fragmented and distorted NMJs were evident at both the light microscopic and
electron microscopic levels. We found that anti-LRP4 sera decreased cell surface 
LRP4 levels, inhibited agrin-induced MuSK activation and AChR clustering, and
activated complements, revealing potential pathophysiological mechanisms. To
further confirm the pathogenicity of LRP4 antibodies, we transferred IgGs
purified from LRP4-immunized rabbits into naive mice and found that they
exhibited MG-like symptoms, including reduced CMAP and impaired neuromuscular
transmission. Together, these data demonstrate that LRP4 autoantibodies induce MG
and that LRP4 contributes to NMJ maintenance in adulthood.

PMCID: PMC3859418
PMID: 24200689  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Muscle Nerve. 2014 May;49(5):749-56. doi: 10.1002/mus.24057.

Targeting therapy to the neuromuscular junction: proof of concept.

Kusner LL(1), Satija N, Cheng G, Kaminski HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Physiology, George Washington University,
Washington, DC, USA.

INTRODUCTION: The site of pathology in myasthenia gravis (MG) is the
neuromuscular junction (NMJ). Our goal was to determine the ability to direct
complement inhibition to the NMJ.
METHODS: A single-chain antibody directed against the alpha subunit of the
acetylcholine receptor was synthesized (scFv-35) and coupled to
decay-accelerating factor (DAF, scFv-35-DAF). scFv-35-DAF was tested in a passive
model of experimentally acquired MG.
RESULTS: Administration of scFv-35-DAF to mice deficient in intrinsic complement 
inhibitors produced no weakness despite confirmation of its localization to the
NMJ and no evidence of tissue destruction related to complement activation. Rats 
with experimentally acquired MG treated with scFV-35-DAF showed less weakness and
a reduction of complement deposition.
CONCLUSIONS: We demonstrate a method to effectively target a therapeutic agent to
the NMJ.

© 2013 The Authors. Muscle & Nerve published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

PMCID: PMC4296224
PMID: 24037951  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Neurosci Lett. 2013 Oct 25;555:85-90. doi: 10.1016/j.neulet.2013.09.014. Epub
2013 Sep 13.

Altered expression of miR-146a in myasthenia gravis.

Lu J(1), Yan M, Wang Y, Zhang J, Yang H, Tian FF, Zhou W, Zhang N, Li J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, Changsha,
Hunan 410078, China; Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Johns
Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.

The purpose of this study was to analyze the expression of miR-146a in PBMCs
obtained from patients with myasthenia gravis (MG) and healthy controls and to
investigate the effect of the inhibition of miR-146a on the activation of AchR
specific B cells obtained from mice. The expression of miR-146a levels in PBMCs
obtained from patients with MG and healthy controls were determined by qRT-PCR.
MiR-146a's complementary fragment, AntagomiR-146a, was synthesized as inhibitor, 
and the nonfunctional fragment, which has similar construction to AntagomiR-146a,
was synthesized as negative control inhibitor. The expression of miR-146a, CD40, 
CD80 and CD86 on AchR specific B cells were analyzed by qRT-PCR and flow
cytometry. Western blotting was used to detect the expression of TLR4, NF-κB and 
Bcl-2 .The expression of miRNA-146a in PBMCs obtained from patients with MG was
significantly upregulated compared to healthy controls (P<0.01). Transfection
with miR-146a inhibitor dramatically decreased expression of miR-146a, CD40,
CD80, TLR4 and NF-κB on AchR specific B cells compared to mock transfected cells.
We conclude that abnormal expression/regulation of miR-146a may play an important
role in the regulation of AchR specific B cells and contribute to the
pathogenesis of MG.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 24036458  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Neurosci Res. 2013 Sep-Oct;77(1-2):102-9. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2013.07.008. Epub
2013 Aug 7.

Muscle-specific regulation of the mTOR signaling pathway in MuSK antibody
seropositive (MuSK+) experimental autoimmune Myasthenia gravis (EAMG).

Chauhan M(1), Punga T, Punga AR.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuroscience, Department of Clinical Neurophysiology, Uppsala
University, 75185 Uppsala, Sweden. Electronic address: mayankchhn@gmail.com.

Myasthenia gravis (MG) patients with antibodies against muscle specific tyrosine 
kinase (MuSK+) typically present focal fatigue and atrophy of the facial and
bulbar muscles, including the masseter muscle, whereas leg muscles often are
clinically spared. This study addresses the regulation of the mTOR signaling
pathway in the masseter muscle versus the leg muscle tibialis anterior (TA). We
analyzed muscle morphology, protein levels of mTOR components as well as
atrogenes and mitochondrial markers in these muscles of healthy control mice and 
mice with different clinical severity grades of MuSK+ experimental autoimmune MG 
(EAMG). Protein levels of mTOR components were reduced in the atrophic masseter
muscle of MuSK+ EAMG mice, whereas enhanced accumulation of mTOR components was
observed in the TA muscles. Two other muscles: omohyoid and soleus showed
intermediate spectra. In conclusion, the anabolic mTOR signaling pathway is
differentially regulated even in muscles with the same activity pattern in the
same neuromuscular disease. This could in part explain the clinical phenotype in 
MuSK+ EAMG as well as in muscular dystrophies.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd and the Japan Neuroscience Society. All
rights reserved.

PMID: 23933211  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Food Chem Toxicol. 2013 Oct;60:391-6. doi: 10.1016/j.fct.2013.07.079. Epub 2013
Aug 8.

Arecoline inhibits and destabilizes agrin-induced acetylcholine receptor cluster 
formation in C2C12 myotubes.

Chang YF(1), Liu TY, Liu ST.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Science and Environmental Biology, Kaohsiung Medical 
University, Kaohsiung 807, Taiwan. Electronic address: m795003@kmu.edu.tw.

Areca nut (Areca catechu) is chewed as a medical and psychoactive food by roughly
10% of the world population. Areca nut chewing may lead to low birth weight,
premature delivery and impaired muscle development. Our previous study showed
that arecoline, a major alkaloid in the areca nut, inhibited the myogenic
differentiation of C2C12 myoblastic cells. The clustering of acetylcholine
receptors (AChRs) in the postsynaptic membrane at the neuromuscular junction
(NMJ) by agrin, a signaling protein released by motor neurons, is critical for
the development of functional muscles. Here, we further investigate whether
arecoline affects the AChR clustering using cultured C2C12 myotubes.
Rhodamine-conjugated α-bungarotoxin was used to detect the presence of AChR
clusters. Our results showed that arecoline inhibited the formation of
agrin-induced AChR clusters and destabilized agrin-induced or spontaneous AChR
cluster formation. In addition, arecoline inhibited the expression of myogenin in
C2C12 myotubes. These results shed light on the important role of arecoline on
the detrimental effect of areca nut to muscle development.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 23933062  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Cell Mol Life Sci. 2013 Dec;70(24):4795-808. doi: 10.1007/s00018-013-1425-y. Epub
2013 Jul 27.

IL-18 in inflammatory and autoimmune disease.

Sedimbi SK(1), Hägglöf T, Karlsson MC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine-Solna, Translational Immunology Unit, Karolinska
Institutet, Karolinska University Hospital Solna, L2:04, 171 76, Stockholm,
Sweden, Saikiran.Sedimbi@ki.se.

Inflammation serves as the first line of defense in response to tissue injury,
guiding the immune system to ensure preservation of the host. The inflammatory
response can be divided into a quick initial phase mediated mainly by innate
immune cells including neutrophils and macrophages, followed by a late phase that
is dominated by lymphocytes. Early in the new millennium, a key component of the 
inflammatory reaction was discovered with the identification of a number of
cytosolic sensor proteins (Nod-like receptors) that assembled into a common
structure, the 'inflammasome'. This structure includes an enzyme, caspase-1,
which upon activation cleaves pro-forms of cytokines leading to subsequent
release of active IL-1 and IL-18. This review focuses on the role of IL-18 in
inflammatory responses with emphasis on autoimmune diseases.

PMID: 23892891  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Muscle Nerve. 2014 Apr;49(4):487-94. doi: 10.1002/mus.23951. Epub 2014 Feb 27.

Interleukin-10 producing-B cells and their association with responsiveness to
rituximab in myasthenia gravis.

Sun F(1), Ladha SS, Yang L, Liu Q, Shi SX, Su N, Bomprezzi R, Shi FD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and Tianjin Neurological Institute, Tianjin Medical
University General Hospital, Tianjin, 300052, China.

INTRODUCTION: A subset of regulatory B cells in humans and mice has been defined 
functionally by their ability to produce interleukin (IL)-10. We characterized
IL-10-producing B (B10) cells in myasthenia gravis (MG) patients and correlated
them with disease activity and responsiveness to rituximab therapy.
METHODS: Frequencies of B10 cells from MG patients and healthy controls were
monitored by fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS).
RESULTS: MG patients had fewer B10 cells than controls, which was associated with
more severe disease status. Moreover, patients who responded well to rituximab
therapy exhibited rapid repopulation of B10 cells, whereas in patients who did
not respond well to rituximab, B10 cell repopulation was delayed. The kinetics of
B10 cells were related to the responsiveness to rituximab in MG.
CONCLUSIONS: We have characterized a specific subset of B10 cells in MG patients 
which may serve as a marker for disease activity and responsiveness to immune
therapy.

Published 2013 by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. This article is a US Government work
and, as such, is in the public domain in the United States of America.

PMID: 23868194  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. J Neuroimmunol. 2013 Sep 15;262(1-2):27-34. doi: 10.1016/j.jneuroim.2013.06.001. 
Epub 2013 Jul 9.

Age dependent course of EAE in Aire-/- mice.

Aharoni R(1), Aricha R, Eilam R, From I, Mizrahi K, Arnon R, Souroujon MC, Fuchs 
S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, The Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, Israel.

This study explores the consequences of deficiency in the autoimmune regulator
(Aire) on the susceptibility to experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). 
Increased susceptibility to EAE was found in Aire knockout (KO) compared to wild 
type (WT) in 6month old mice. In contrast, 2month old Aire KO mice were less
susceptible to EAE than WT mice, and this age-related resistance correlated with 
elevated proportions of T regulatory (Treg) cells in their spleen and brain.
Combined with our previous findings in experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis,
we suggest an age-related association between Aire and Treg cells in the
susceptibility to autoimmunity.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 23849800  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Neurol Sci. 2014 Feb;35(2):191-7. doi: 10.1007/s10072-013-1476-8. Epub 2013 Jun
27.

Influence of human myasthenia gravis thymus on the differentiation of human cord 
blood stem cells in SCID mice.

Li QR(1), Liu PP, Xuan XY, Guan SS, Du Y, Gao F, Zhang QY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology and Microbiology, Basic Medical College, Zhengzhou
University, No.100 of Science Road, Zhengzhou, 450001, China.

The normal thymus contributes to T lymphocytes differentiation and induction of
tolerance to self-antigens. Myasthenia gravis (MG) is characterized by abnormal
thymic hyperplasia. To assess the potential influence of MG-thymus on the
differentiation of T lymphocytes differentiation, we used the MG-thymus
transplanted severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) mice model to evaluate the
human cord blood stem cells differentiation. Thymus fragments from MG patient and
human cord blood stem cells were transplanted into SCID mice successively. SCID
mice were observed to develop sustained human T lymphocytes and a functional
anti-tumor immune. The levels of various T cell subsets in SCID mice with
MG-thymus were different from that of control group. Among that, the frequency of
CD4(+)CD25(+) T cells was significant lower in SCID mice with MG-thymus. The
deficiency of CD4(+)CD25(+) T cells seens to contribute to the pathogenesis of
MG.

PMID: 23807119  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. J Immunol. 2013 Jun 1;190(11):5516-25. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1202298. Epub 2013
Apr 29.

OX40L/Jagged1 cosignaling by GM-CSF-induced bone marrow-derived dendritic cells
is required for the expansion of functional regulatory T cells.

Gopisetty A(1), Bhattacharya P, Haddad C, Bruno JC Jr, Vasu C, Miele L, Prabhakar
BS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Illinois at Chicago, 
Chicago, IL 60612, USA.

Earlier, we had demonstrated that treatment with low dose of GM-CSF can prevent
the development of experimental autoimmune thyroiditis (EAT), experimental
autoimmune myasthenia gravis, and type 1 diabetes, and could also reverse ongoing
EAT and experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis. The protective effect was
mediated through the induction of tolerogenic CD11C(+)CD8α(-) dendritic cells
(DCs) and consequent expansion of Foxp3(+) regulatory T cells (Tregs).
Subsequently, we showed that GM-CSF acted specifically on bone marrow precursors 
and facilitated their differentiation into tolerogenic dendritic cells (DCs;
GM-CSF-induced bone marrow-derived DCs [GM-BMDCs]), which directed Treg expansion
in a contact-dependent manner. This novel mechanism of Treg expansion was
independent of TCR-mediated signaling but required exogenous IL-2 and cosignaling
from DC-bound OX40L. In this study, we observed that OX40L-mediated signaling by 
GM-BMDCs, although necessary, was not sufficient for Treg expansion and required 
signaling by Jagged1. Concurrent signaling induced by OX40L and Jagged1 via OX40 
and Notch3 receptors expressed on Tregs was essential for the Treg expansion with
sustained FoxP3 expression. Adoptive transfer of only OX40L(+)Jagged1(+) BMDCs
led to Treg expansion, increased production of IL-4 and IL-10, and suppression of
EAT in the recipient mice. These results showed a critical role for OX40L- and
Jagged1-induced cosignaling in GM-BMDC-induced Treg expansion.

PMCID: PMC3660466
PMID: 23630352  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Autoimmun Rev. 2013 Jul;12(9):904-11. doi: 10.1016/j.autrev.2013.03.003. Epub
2013 Mar 26.

Complement associated pathogenic mechanisms in myasthenia gravis.

Tüzün E(1), Christadoss P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Texas Medical Branch,
Galveston, TX 77555-1070, USA.

The complement system is profoundly involved in the pathogenesis of acetylcholine
receptor (AChR) antibody (Ab) related myasthenia gravis (MG) and its animal model
experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (EAMG). The most characteristic finding
of muscle pathology in both MG and EAMG is the abundance of IgG and complement
deposits at the nerve-muscle junction (NMJ), suggesting that AChR-Ab induces
muscle weakness by complement pathway activation and consequent membrane attack
complex (MAC) formation. This assumption has been supported with EAMG resistance 
of complement factor C3 knockout (KO), C4 KO and C5 deficient mice and
amelioration of EAMG symptoms following treatment with complement inhibitors such
as cobra venom factor, soluble complement receptor 1, anti-C1q, anti-C5 and
anti-C6 Abs. Moreover, the complement inhibitor decay accelerating factor (DAF)
KO mice exhibit increased susceptibility to EAMG. These findings have brought
forward improvisation of novel therapy methods based on inhibition of classical
and common complement pathways in MG treatment.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 23537510  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. J Physiol. 2013 May 15;591(Pt 10):2747-62. doi: 10.1113/jphysiol.2013.251827.
Epub 2013 Feb 25.

Pyridostigmine but not 3,4-diaminopyridine exacerbates ACh receptor loss and
myasthenia induced in mice by muscle-specific kinase autoantibody.

Morsch M(1), Reddel SW, Ghazanfari N, Toyka KV, Phillips WD.

Author information: 
(1)School of Medical Sciences (Physiology) and Bosch Institute, Anderson Stuart
Bldg (F13), University of Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia.

In myasthenia gravis, the neuromuscular junction is impaired by the
antibody-mediated loss of postsynaptic acetylcholine receptors (AChRs). Muscle
weakness can be improved upon treatment with pyridostigmine, a cholinesterase
inhibitor, or with 3,4-diaminopyridine, which increases the release of ACh
quanta. The clinical efficacy of pyridostigmine is in doubt for certain forms of 
myasthenia. Here we formally examined the effects of these compounds in the
antibody-induced mouse model of anti-muscle-specific kinase (MuSK) myasthenia
gravis. Mice received 14 daily injections of IgG from patients with anti-MuSK
myasthenia gravis. This caused reductions in postsynaptic AChR densities and in
endplate potential amplitudes. Systemic delivery of pyridostigmine at
therapeutically relevant levels from days 7 to 14 exacerbated the
anti-MuSK-induced structural alterations and functional impairment at motor
endplates in the diaphragm muscle. No such effect of pyridostigmine was found in 
mice receiving control human IgG. Mice receiving smaller amounts of MuSK
autoantibodies did not display overt weakness, but 9 days of pyridostigmine
treatment precipitated generalised muscle weakness. In contrast, one week of
treatment with 3,4-diaminopyridine enhanced neuromuscular transmission in the
diaphragm muscle. Both pyridostigmine and 3,4-diaminopyridine increase ACh in the
synaptic cleft yet only pyridostigmine potentiated the anti-MuSK-induced decline 
in endplate ACh receptor density. These results thus suggest that ongoing
pyridostigmine treatment potentiates anti-MuSK-induced AChR loss by prolonging
the activity of ACh in the synaptic cleft.

PMCID: PMC3678053
PMID: 23440963  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. J Autoimmun. 2013 May;42:94-104. doi: 10.1016/j.jaut.2013.01.003. Epub 2013 Feb
12.

Complement C2 siRNA mediated therapy of myasthenia gravis in mice.

Huda R(1), Tüzün E, Christadoss P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Texas Medical Branch,
Galveston, TX 77555-1070, USA.

Activation of complement components is crucial in the progression and severity of
myasthenia gravis and experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (EAMG). Mice
deficient in complement component C4 or treated with monoclonal antibody to C1q
are resistant to EAMG. In this study, we show that inhibition of complement
cascade activation by suppressing the expression of a critical low-abundant
protein, C2, in the classical complement pathway, significantly improved clinical
and immunopathological manifestations of EAMG. Two weeks after a second booster
immunization with acetylcholine receptor, when mice exhibit muscle weakness, i.p.
injection of C2 siRNA significantly suppressed C2 mRNA in the blood cells and
liver of EAMG mice. Treatment of EAMG mice with C2 siRNA, once a week for 5
weeks, significantly improved muscle strength, which was further evidenced by
functional AChR preservation in muscle, reduction in number of C3 and
membrane-attack complexes at neuro-muscular junctions in forelimb muscle
sections, and a transient decrease in serum IgG2b levels. Our study shows for the
first time that siRNA-mediated suppression of C2, a component of the classical
complement system, following established disease, can effectively contribute to
the remission of EAMG. Therefore, C2 siRNA mediated therapy can be applied in all
complement mediated autoimmune diseases.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMID: 23410585  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Curr Protoc Immunol. 2013;Chapter 15:Unit 15.8.. doi:
10.1002/0471142735.im1508s100.

Experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis in the mouse.

Wu B(1), Goluszko E, Huda R, Tüzün E, Christadoss P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Texas Medical Branch,
Galveston, Texas.

Myasthenia gravis (MG) is a T cell-dependent antibody-mediated autoimmune
neuromuscular disease. Antibodies to the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) 
destroy the AChR, thus leading to defective neuromuscular transmission of
electrical impulse and to muscle weakness. This unit is a practical guide to the 
induction and evaluation of experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (EAMG) in
the mouse, the animal model for MG. Protocols are provided for the extraction and
purification of AChR from the electric organs of Torpedo californica, or the
electric ray. The purified receptor is used as an immunogen to induce
autoimmunity to AChR, thus causing EAMG. The defect in neuromuscular transmission
can also be measured quantitatively by electromyography. In addition, EAMG is
frequently characterized by the presence of serum antibodies to AChR, which are
measured by radioimmunoassay and by a marked antibody-mediated reduction in the
number of muscle AChRs. AChR extracted from mouse muscle is used in measuring
serum antibody levels and for quantifying muscle AChR content. Another hallmark
of the disease is complement and IgG deposits located at the neuromuscular
junction, which can be visualized by immunofluorescence techniques.

© 2013 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

PMID: 23392639  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. PLoS One. 2012;7(12):e52119. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0052119. Epub 2012 Dec 20.

Prophylactic effect of probiotics on the development of experimental autoimmune
myasthenia gravis.

Chae CS(1), Kwon HK, Hwang JS, Kim JE, Im SH.

Author information: 
(1)School of Life Sciences and Immune Synapse Research Center, Gwangju Institute 
of Science and Technology (GIST), Buk-gu, Gwangju, Korea.

Probiotics are live bacteria that confer health benefits to the host physiology. 
Although protective role of probiotics have been reported in diverse diseases, no
information is available whether probiotics can modulate neuromuscular immune
disorders. We have recently demonstrated that IRT5 probiotics, a mixture of 5
probiotics, could suppress diverse experimental disorders in mice model. In this 
study we further investigated whether IRT5 probiotics could modulate the
progression of experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (EAMG). Myasthenia
gravis (MG) is a T cell dependent antibody mediated autoimmune disorder in which 
acetylcholine receptor (AChR) at the neuromuscular junction is the major
auto-antigen. Oral administration of IRT5 probiotics significantly reduced
clinical symptoms of EAMG such as weight loss, body trembling and grip strength. 
Prophylactic effect of IRT5 probiotics on EMAG is mediated by down-regulation of 
effector function of AChR-reactive T cells and B cells. Administration of IRT5
probiotics decreased AChR-reactive lymphocyte proliferation, anti-AChR reactive
IgG levels and inflammatory cytokine levels such as IFN-γ, TNF-α, IL-6 and IL-17.
Down-regulation of inflammatory mediators in AChR-reactive lymphocytes by IRT5
probiotics is mediated by the generation of regulatory dendritic cells (rDCs)
that express increased levels of IL-10, TGF-β, arginase 1 and aldh1a2.
Furthermore, DCs isolated from IRT5 probiotics-fed group effectively converted
CD4(+) T cells into CD4(+)Foxp3(+) regulatory T cells compared with control DCs. 
Our data suggest that IRT5 probiotics could be applicable to modulate antibody
mediated autoimmune diseases including myasthenia gravis.

PMCID: PMC3527378
PMID: 23284891  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Ann Neurol. 2013 Feb;73(2):281-93. doi: 10.1002/ana.23791. Epub 2012 Dec 31.

Implication of double-stranded RNA signaling in the etiology of autoimmune
myasthenia gravis.

Cufi P(1), Dragin N, Weiss JM, Martinez-Martinez P, De Baets MH, Roussin R, Fadel
E, Berrih-Aknin S, Le Panse R.

Author information: 
(1)Research unit CNRS UMR7215/INSERM U974/UPMC UM76/AIM - Institute of Myology - 
Therapies of the disorders of striated muscle Pitié-Salpêtrière, Paris, France.

OBJECTIVE: Myasthenia gravis (MG) is an autoimmune disease mediated mainly by
anti-acetylcholine receptor (AChR) antibodies. The thymus plays a primary role in
MG pathogenesis. As we recently showed an inflammatory and antiviral signature in
MG thymuses, we investigated whether pathogen-sensing molecules could contribute 
to an anti-AChR response.
METHODS: We studied the effects of toll-like receptor agonists on the expression 
of α-AChR and various tissue-specific antigens (TSAs) in human thymic epithelial 
cell (TEC) cultures. As polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid (poly[I:C]), which mimics
double-stranded RNA (dsRNA), stimulated specifically α-AChR expression, the
signaling pathways involved were investigated. In parallel, we analyzed the
expression of dsRNA-signaling components in the thymus of MG patients, and the
relevance of our data was investigated in vivo in poly(I:C)-injected mice.
RESULTS: We demonstrate that dsRNA signaling induced by poly(I:C) specifically
triggers the overexpression of α-AChR in TECs and not of other TSAs. A poly(I:C) 
effect was also observed on MG TECs. This induction is mediated through toll-like
receptor 3 (TLR3) and protein kinase R (PKR), and by the release of interferon
(IFN)-β. In parallel, human MG thymuses also display an overexpression of TLR3,
PKR, and IFN-β. In addition, poly(I:C) injections specifically increase thymic
expression of α-AChR in wild-type mice, but not in IFN-I receptor knockout mice. 
These injections also lead to an anti-AChR autoimmune response characterized by a
significant production of serum anti-AChR antibodies and a specific proliferation
of B cells.
INTERPRETATION: Because anti-AChR antibodies are highly specific for MG and are
pathogenic, dsRNA-signaling activation could contribute to the etiology of MG.

Copyright © 2012 American Neurological Association.

PMID: 23280437  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2012 Dec;1275:114-22. doi: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2012.06808.x.

Pathogenic IgG4 subclass autoantibodies in MuSK myasthenia gravis.

Plomp JJ(1), Huijbers MG, van der Maarel SM, Verschuuren JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Medical Genetics Center, Leiden University Medical
Center, Leiden, the Netherlands. j.j.plomp@lumc.nl

Autoantibodies against muscle-specific kinase (MuSK), a protein essential for
clustering of acetylcholine receptors at the neuromuscular junction (NMJ), are
detected in the serum of a proportion of myasthenia gravis (MG) patients. In most
MuSK MG patients the anti-MuSK activity resides in the IgG4 subclass, a minor IgG
component without very well-defined, but presumably anti-inflammatory, roles in
immunity. In recent years, several animal model studies showed that anti-MuSK
autoantibodies can cause muscle weakness by directly affecting NMJ function and, 
therefore, are likely not simply bystander disease markers in MuSK MG patients.
In passive transfer mice, we recently provided proof that MuSK MG patient IgG4 is
severely myasthenogenic, causing functional defects at NMJs. Against the
clinical, serological, and pharmacological background of MuSK MG, here we discuss
the MuSK MG animal models generated by our laboratory and others that have been
instrumental in elucidating the etiological and pathophysiological roles of
anti-MuSK antibodies.

© 2012 New York Academy of Sciences.

PMID: 23278586  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2012 Dec;1275:107-13. doi: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2012.06843.x.

Experimental myasthenia gravis in Aire-deficient mice: a link between Aire and
regulatory T cells.

Aricha R(1), Feferman T, Berrih-Aknin S, Fuchs S, Souroujon MC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, The Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, Israel.

Aire (autoimmune regulator) has a key role in the establishment of tolerance to
autoantigens. Aire(-/-) mice present decreased thymic expression of AChR,
significantly lower frequencies of regulatory T (T(reg)) cells, and higher
expression of Th17 markers, compared to controls. We therefore predicted that
Aire(-/-) mice would be more susceptible to induction of experimental autoimmune 
myasthenia gravis (EAMG). However, when EAMG was induced in young mice, Aire(-/-)
mice presented a milder disease that wild-type (WT) controls. In contrast, when
EAMG was induced in older mice, Aire(-/-) mice were more severely affected than
WT mice. The relative resistance to EAMG in young Aire(-/-) mice correlated with 
increased numbers of T(reg) cells in their spleens compared to young controls. A 
similar age-related susceptibility was also observed when EAE was induced in
Aire(-/-) mice, suggesting an age-related link among Aire, disease
susceptibility, and peripheral T(reg) cells that may be a general feature of
autoimmunity.

© 2012 New York Academy of Sciences.

PMID: 23278585  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2012 Dec;1274:140-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2012.06782.x.

Animal models of antimuscle-specific kinase myasthenia.

Richman DP(1), Nishi K, Ferns MJ, Schnier J, Pytel P, Maselli RA, Agius MA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Center for Neuroscience, University of California,
Davis, 95616, USA. dprichman@ucdavis.edu

Antimuscle-specific kinase (anti-MuSK) myasthenia (AMM) differs from
antiacetylcholine receptor myasthenia gravis in exhibiting more focal muscle
involvement (neck, shoulder, facial, and bulbar muscles) with wasting of the
involved, primarily axial, muscles. AMM is not associated with thymic hyperplasia
and responds poorly to anticholinesterase treatment. Animal models of AMM have
been induced in rabbits, mice, and rats by immunization with purified xenogeneic 
MuSK ectodomain, and by passive transfer of large quantities of purified serum
IgG from AMM patients into mice. The models have confirmed the pathogenic role of
the MuSK antibodies in AMM and have demonstrated the involvement of both the
presynaptic and postsynaptic components of the neuromuscular junction. The
observations in this human disease and its animal models demonstrate the role of 
MuSK not only in the formation of this synapse but also in its maintenance.

© 2012 New York Academy of Sciences.

PMCID: PMC3915870
PMID: 23252909  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2012 Dec;1274:133-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2012.06773.x.

Novel animal models of acetylcholine receptor antibody-related myasthenia gravis.

Tüzün E(1), Allman W, Ulusoy C, Yang H, Christadoss P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, The University of Texas Medical
Branch, Galveston, USA.

Experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (EAMG) in mice has been used to unravel
the pathogenic mechanisms and to be used as a preclinical model of myasthenia
gravis (MG). Induction of predominantly ocular EAMG in HLA-DQ8 transgenic mice
immunized with acetylcholine receptor (AChR) subunits demonstrated the importance
of nonconformationally expressed AChR subunits in extraocular muscle involvement.
Wild-type (WT) and CD4(+) T cell knockout (KO) C57BL/6 mice developed EAMG upon
immunization with AChR in incomplete Freund's adjuvant plus lipopolysaccharide.
AChR-specific IgG2(+) B cell frequencies, estimated by Alexa-conjugated AChR, and
AChR-reactive IgG2b levels significantly correlated with the clinical grades of
EAMG in WT mice. CD4(+) T cell-deficient EAMG mice exhibited AChR antibodies
mainly of the IgG2b isotype, emphasizing T helper-independent B cell activation
pathways in EAMG induction. These novel EAMG models have suggested that diverse
immunopathological mechanisms might contribute to EAMG or MG pathogenesis.

© 2012 New York Academy of Sciences.

PMID: 23252908  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2012 Dec;1274:127-32. doi: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2012.06783.x.

The role of complement in experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis.

Kusner LL(1), Kaminski HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Physiology, The George Washington University,
Washington, DC, USA. lkusner@gwu.edu

Complement plays an important role in the pathophysiology of experimental
autoimmune myasthenia gravis (EAMG). The deposition of IgG at the neuromuscular
junction, followed by the activation and observance of C3 at the site, and
finally the insertion of the membrane attack complex results in the destruction
of the plasma membrane at the neuromuscular junction. Animal models of
complement-deficient components show the importance of the mediated lysis in
EAMG. These events have regulators that allow for the limitation in the cascade
and the ability of the cell to inhibit complement at many places along the
pathway. The complement regulatory proteins have many roles in reducing the
activation of the complement cascade and the inflammatory pathways. Mice
deficient in complement regulatory proteins, decay accelerating factor, and CD59 
demonstrate a significant increase in the destruction at the neuromuscular
junction. Inhibition of complement-mediated lysis is an attractive therapeutic in
MG.

© 2012 New York Academy of Sciences.

PMCID: PMC3531867
PMID: 23252907  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Rinsho Shinkeigaku. 2012;52(11):1306-8.

[Anti-MuSK antibodies in myasthenia gravis block binding of collagen Q to MuSK].

[Article in Japanese]

Ohno K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neurogenetics, Center for Neurological Diseases and Cancer, Nagoya
University Graduate School of Medicine.

In myasthenia gravis (MG), 5-15% of patients are positive for MuSK antibodies.
MuSK binds to LRP4 and transmits an agrin-mediated signal for clustering of
acetylcholine receptor (AChR). MuSK also anchors the collagenic tail subunit
(ColQ) of acetylcholinesterase (AChE). MuSK-IgG is a blocking antibody, but its
molecular targets remained elusive. As acetylcholine receptor (AChR) deficiency
is typically mild and as cholinesterase inhibitors are generally ineffective in
MuSK-MG patients, we asked if MuSK-IgG interferes with binding of ColQ to MuSK.
The in vitro overlay assay showed that MuSK-IgG blocked binding of ColQ to the
neuromuscular junction of Colq-/- mice. The in vitro plate-binding assay showed
that MuSK-IgG blocked binding of ColQ to MuSK in a dose-dependent manner. Passive
transfer of MuSK-IgG to wild-type mice reduced the size and density of ColQ to
～10% of controls and had a lesser effect on the size and density of AChR and
MuSK. These data point to a notion that MuSK-IgG blocks binding of ColQ to MuSK. 
As lack of ColQ compromises agrin-mediated AChR clustering in Colq-/- mice, a
similar mechanism may lead to AChR deficiency in MuSK-MG patients.

PMID: 23196600  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Neurogastroenterol Motil. 2013 Jan;25(1):84-8.e10. doi: 10.1111/nmo.12030. Epub
2012 Oct 17.

Gastrointestinal hypomotility with loss of enteric nicotinic acetylcholine
receptors: active immunization model in mice.

Meeusen JW(1), Haselkorn KE, Fryer JP, Kryzer TJ, Gibbons SJ, Xiao Y, Lennon VA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN
55905, USA.

BACKGROUND: Autoimmune gastrointestinal dysmotility (AGID) is a limited form of
dysautonomia. The only proven effector to date is IgG specific for ganglionic
nicotinic-acetylcholine receptors containing α3 subunits [α3*- nicotinic
acetylcholine receptor (nAChR)]. Rabbits immunized with recombinant
α3-polypeptide produce α3*-nAChR autoantibodies, and profound AGID ensues. Human 
and rabbit α3*-nAChR-specific-IgGs induce transient hypomotility when injected
into mice. Here, we describe success and problems encountered inducing
gastrointestinal hypomotility in mice by active immunization.
METHODS: We repeatedly injected young adult mice of seven different strains
susceptible to autoimmunity (spontaneous diabetes or neural antigen
immunization-induced myasthenia gravis or encephalomyelitis) with: (i)
α3-polypeptide, intradermally or (ii) live α3*-nAChR-expressing xenogeneic cells,
intraperitoneally. We measured serum α3*-nAChR-IgG twice monthly, and terminally 
assessed blue dye gastrointestinal transit, total small intestinal α3*-nAChR
content (radiochemically) and myenteric plexus neuron numbers
(immunohistochemically, ileal-jejunal whole-mount preparations).
KEY RESULTS: Standard cutaneous inoculation with α3-polypeptide was minimally
immunogenic, regardless of dose. Intraperitoneally injected live cells were
potently immunogenic. Self-reactive α3*-nAChR-IgG was induced only by rodent
immunogen; small intestinal transit slowing and enteric α3*-nAChR loss required
high serum levels. Ganglionic neurons were not lost.
CONCLUSIONS & INFERENCES: Autoimmune gastrointestinal dysmotility is inducible in
mice by active immunization. Accompanying enteric α3*-nAChR reduction without
neuronal death is consistent with an IgG-mediated rather than T cell-mediated
pathogenesis, as is improvement of symptoms in patients receiving
antibody-depleting therapies.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

PMCID: PMC3535544
PMID: 23072523  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Muscle Nerve. 2013 Jan;47(1):33-40. doi: 10.1002/mus.23448. Epub 2012 Oct 5.

Cell surface complement regulators moderate experimental myasthenia gravis
pathology.

Kusner LL(1), Halperin JA, Kaminski HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Physiology, George Washington University,
Washington, DC, USA. lkusner@gwu.edu

INTRODUCTION: Intrinsic mouse complement regulators influence the severity of
passively induced experimental acquired myasthenia gravis (EAMG). To assess the
potential influence of CD59b in the absence of CD59a background, we used the
mCD59ab(-/-) mouse model to re-evaluate mCD59 in protecting the neuromuscular
junction (NMJ).
METHODS: EAMG was induced with monoclonal antibody to the acetylcholine receptor 
(AChR) in Daf1(-/-) , CD59ab(-/-) , Daf1(-/-) CD59ab(-/-) , and wild-type C57Bl/6
mice. Animals were monitored throughout the experiment. Diaphragms were analyzed 
for NMJ injury.
RESULTS: Daf1(-/-) CD59ab(-/-) mice required euthanasia 24 hours after disease
induction because of severe weakness. Histological assessment demonstrated
reduced AChR density, simplification of synaptic folds, and disrupted
mitochondria. CD59ab-deficient mice demonstrated mild weakness and reduction in
weight after 24 hours. In contrast, Daf1(-/-) had more severe weakness at 60
hours. The NMJ of EAMG-induced Daf1(-/-) and CD59ab(-/-) mice demonstrated
similar AChR density.
CONCLUSION: NMJs of CD59 and DAF mice are protected from complement-mediated
injury of passive EAMG.

Copyright © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

PMCID: PMC4308955
PMID: 23042232  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Chem Biol Interact. 2013 Mar 25;203(1):335-40. doi: 10.1016/j.cbi.2012.08.020.
Epub 2012 Sep 8.

Specific binding of collagen Q to the neuromuscular junction is exploited to cure
congenital myasthenia and to explore bases of myasthenia gravis.

Ohno K(1), Ito M, Kawakami Y, Krejci E, Engel AG.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neurogenetics, Center for Neurological Diseases and Cancer, Nagoya
University Graduate School of Medicine, 65 Tsurumai, Showa-Ku, Nagoya 466-8550,
Japan. ohnok@med.nagoya-u.ac.jp

Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) at the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) is anchored to
the synaptic basal lamina via a triple helical collagen Q (ColQ) in the form of
asymmetric AChE (AChE/ColQ). The C-terminal domain of ColQ binds to MuSK, the
muscle-specific receptor tyrosine kinase, that mediates a signal for
acetylcholine receptor (AChR) clustering at the NMJ. ColQ also binds to heparan
sulfate proteoglycans including perlecan. Congenital defects of ColQ cause
endplate AChE deficiency. A single intravenous administration of adeno-associated
virus serotype 8 (AAV8)-COLQ to Colq-/- mice rescued motor functions, synaptic
transmission, and the ultrastructure of NMJ. We also injected AAV1-COLQ-IRES-EGFP
to the left tibialis anterior and observed colocalization of AChE/ColQ at all the
examined NMJs of the non-injected limbs. Additionally, injection of purified
recombinant AChE/ColQ protein complex into gluteus maximus accumulated AChE in
non-injected forelimbs. These observations suggest that the tissue-targeting
signal of ColQ can be exploited to specifically deliver the transgene product to 
the target tissue. MuSK antibody-positive myasthenia gravis (MG) accounts for
5-15% of autoimmune MG. As AChR deficiency is typically mild and as
cholinesterase inhibitors are generally ineffective or worsen myasthenic
symptoms, we asked if the patient's MuSK-IgG interferes with binding of ColQ to
MuSK. In vitro overlay of AChE/ColQ to muscle sections of Colq-/- mice revealed
that MuSK-IgG blocks binding of ColQ to the NMJ. In vitro plate-binding of MuSK
to ColQ disclosed that MuSK-IgG exerts a dose-dependent block of MuSK-ColQ
interaction. In addition, passive transfer of MuSK-IgG to mice reduced the size
and density of ColQ to ∼10% of controls and had a lesser effect on the sizes and 
densities of AChR and MuSK. Elucidation of molecular mechanisms of specific
binding of ColQ to the NMJ enabled us to ameliorate devastating myasthenic
symptoms of Colq-/- mice and to reveal bases of anti-MuSK MG.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

PMCID: PMC4405266
PMID: 22981737  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. PLoS One. 2012;7(8):e44148. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0044148. Epub 2012 Aug 28.

Fatigue and muscle atrophy in a mouse model of myasthenia gravis is paralleled by
loss of sarcolemmal nNOS.

Meinen S(1), Lin S, Rüegg MA, Punga AR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology/Pharmacology, Biozentrum, University of Basel,
Basel, Switzerland.

Myasthenia Gravis (MG) patients suffer from chronic fatigue of skeletal muscles, 
even after initiation of proper immunosuppressive medication. Since the
localization of neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) at the muscle membrane is
important for sustained muscle contraction, we here study the localization of
nNOS in muscles from mice with acetylcholine receptor antibody seropositive
(AChR+) experimental autoimmune MG (EAMG). EAMG was induced in 8 week-old male
mice by immunization with AChRs purified from torpedo californica. Sham-injected 
wild type mice and mdx mice, a model for Duchenne muscular dystrophy, were used
for comparison. At EAMG disease grade 3 (severe myasthenic weakness), the
triceps, sternomastoid and masseter muscles were collected for analysis. Unlike
in mdx muscles, total nNOS expression as well as the presence of its binding
partner syntrophin α-1, were not altered in EAMG. Immunohistological and
biochemical analysis showed that nNOS was lost from the muscle membrane and
accumulated in the cytosol, which is likely the consequence of blocked
neuromuscular transmission. Atrophy of all examined EAMG muscles were supported
by up-regulated transcript levels of the atrogenes atrogin-1 and MuRF1, as well
as MuRF1 protein, in combination with reduced muscle fiber diameters. We propose 
that loss of sarcolemmal nNOS provides an additional mechanism for the chronic
muscle fatigue and secondary muscle atrophy in EAMG and MG.

PMCID: PMC3429452
PMID: 22952904  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Exp Neurol. 2012 Oct;237(2):286-95. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2012.06.034. Epub
2012 Jul 10.

Muscle specific kinase autoantibodies cause synaptic failure through progressive 
wastage of postsynaptic acetylcholine receptors.

Morsch M(1), Reddel SW, Ghazanfari N, Toyka KV, Phillips WD.

Author information: 
(1)School of Medical Sciences-Physiology and Bosch Institute, University of
Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales 2006, Australia.

In myasthenia gravis muscle weakness is caused by autoantibodies against
components of the neuromuscular junction. Patient autoantibodies against muscle
specific kinase (MuSK) deplete MuSK from the postsynaptic membrane and reproduce 
signs of myasthenia gravis when injected into mice. Here we have examined the
time-course of structural and functional changes that lead up to synaptic
failure. C57Bl6J mice received daily injections of anti-MuSK patient IgG for 15
days. Mice began to lose weight from day 12 and demonstrated whole-body weakness 
by day 14. Electromyography indicated synaptic impairment from day 6 in the
gastrocnemius muscle and from day 10 in the diaphragm muscle. Confocal microscopy
revealed linear declines in the area and density of postsynaptic acetylcholine
receptors (3-5% per day) from day 1 through day 15 of the injection series in all
five muscles examined. Intracellular recordings from the diaphragm muscle
revealed comparable progressive declines in the amplitude of the endplate
potential and miniature endplate potential of 3-4% per day. Neither quantal
content nor the postsynaptic action potential threshold changed significantly
over the injection series. The inverse relationship between the quantal amplitude
of a synapse and its quantal content disappeared only late in the injection
series (day 10). Our results suggest that the primary myasthenogenic action of
anti-MuSK IgG is to cause wastage of postsynaptic acetylcholine receptor density.
Consequent reductions in endplate potential amplitudes culminated in failure of
neuromuscular transmission.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 22789393  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. J Neuroimmunol. 2012 Oct 15;251(1-2):25-32. doi: 10.1016/j.jneuroim.2012.06.007. 
Epub 2012 Jul 5.

Specific immunotherapy of experimental myasthenia gravis in vitro and in vivo:
the Guided Missile strategy.

Sun W(1), Adams RN, Miagkov A, Lu Y, Juon HS, Drachman DB.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Microbiology and Immunology, Univ. of Maryland School of Medicine,
Baltimore, MD 21201, United States.

Current immunotherapy of myasthenia gravis (MG) is often effective, but entails
risks of infection and neoplasia. The "Guided Missile" strategy described here is
designed to target and eliminate the individual's unique AChR-specific T cell
repertoire, without otherwise interfering with the immune system. We genetically 
engineered dendritic cells to present AChR epitopes and simultaneously express
Fas ligand in an ongoing EAMG model. In both in vitro and in vivo experiments,
these engineered cells specifically killed AChR-responsive T cells without
otherwise damaging the immune system. AChR antibodies were markedly reduced in
the treated mice. Translation of this method to treat human MG is possible.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 22769060  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Molecules. 2012 Jun 15;17(6):7503-22. doi: 10.3390/molecules17067503.

Guanidine affects differentially the twitch response of diaphragm, extensor
digitorum longus and soleus nerve-muscle preparations of mice.

Ferrari R(1), Rodrigues-Simioni L, da Cruz Höfling MA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Histology and Embryology, Institute of Biology, University of
Campinas-UNICAMP, P.O. Box 6109, 13083-970 Campinas, SP, Brazil.

Guanidine has been used with some success to treat myasthenia gravis and
myasthenic syndrome because it increases acetylcholine release at nerve terminals
through K⁺, Na⁺ and Ca²⁺ channels-involving mechanisms. Currently, guanidine
derivatives have been proposed for treatment of several diseases. Studies aimed
at providing new insights to the drug are relevant. Experimentally, guanidine (10
mM) induces on mouse phrenic nerve-diaphragm (PND) preparations neurotransmission
facilitation followed by blockade and a greatest secondary facilitation after its
removal from bath. Herein, we hypothesized that this peculiar triphasic response 
may differ in muscles with distinct twitch/metabolic characteristics.
Morphological alterations and contractile response of PND, extensor digitorum
longus (EDL) and soleus (SOL) preparations incubated with guanidine (10 mM) for
15, 30, 60 min were analyzed. Guanidine concentrations of 5 mM (for PND and EDL) 
and 1 mM (for EDL) were also tested. Guanidine triphasic effect was only observed
on PND regardless the concentration. The morphological alterations in muscle
tissue varied along time but did not impede the PND post-wash facilitation.
Higher doses (20-25 mM) did not increase EDL or SOL neurotransmission. The data
suggest a complex mechanism likely dependent on the metabolic/contractile muscle 
phenotype; muscle fiber types and density/type of ion channels, sarcoplasmic
reticulum and mitochondria organization may have profound impact on the levels
and isoform expression pattern of Ca²⁺ regulatory membrane proteins so reflecting
regulation of calcium handling and contractile response in different types of
muscle.

PMID: 22706376  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Arch Neurol. 2012 Aug;69(8):994-1001. doi: 10.1001/archneurol.2012.437.

Presence and pathogenic relevance of antibodies to clustered acetylcholine
receptor in ocular and generalized myasthenia gravis.

Jacob S(1), Viegas S, Leite MI, Webster R, Cossins J, Kennett R, Hilton-Jones D, 
Morgan BP, Vincent A.

Author information: 
(1)Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences, John Radcliffe Hospital,
Oxford, United Kingdom.

Comment in
    Arch Neurol. 2012 Aug;69(8):965-6.

BACKGROUND: Clustered acetylcholine receptor antibodies (clustered AChR-Abs) have
been detected in a proportion of patients with previously "seronegative" (SN)
generalized myasthenia gravis (GMG), but their presence in patients with ocular
MG (OMG) and their pathogenicity in vivo are unknown.
OBJECTIVE: To test the presence of clustered AChR-Abs and their pathophysiologic 
properties in patients with SNMG.
DESIGN: Screening and diagnostic tests.
SETTING: Regional specialist myasthenia center and clinical laboratory.
PATIENTS: Serum samples from 16 patients with SN and OMG were tested for binding 
to clustered AChRs. Results from 28 further SN patients (14 OMG) were correlated 
with their single fiber electromyography values.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Presence, complement-fixation capacity, correlation with
neurophysiologic changes, and in vivo pathogenicity of clustered AChR-Abs.
RESULTS: Up to 50% of patients with previous SN-OMG had complement-fixing IgG1
clustered AChR-Abs. IgG binding (n = 28) and complement deposition (n = 21) each 
correlated with the mean consecutive difference (jitter) on single-fiber
electromyography. Injection of purified IgG from 2 patients with clustered
AChR-Abs into wild-type or complement regulator-deficient mice reduced miniature 
end plate potential amplitudes to an extent similar to that found with AChR-Abs, 
and complement was deposited at the end plates. A trend was noted toward an
increase in the number of packets of acetylcholine released (quantal content).
CONCLUSIONS: A proportion of patients with SN-GMG or OMG have clustered AChR-Abs 
that correlate with their electrophysiologic features. Clustered AChR-Abs can
passively transfer disease to mice, demonstrating their pathogenicity, and the
mechanisms seem similar to those of patients with typical AChR-Abs.

PMID: 22689047  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. J Inflamm (Lond). 2012 May 29;9(1):20. doi: 10.1186/1476-9255-9-20.

Complement regulatory protein Crry deficiency contributes to the antigen specific
recall response in experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis.

Soltys J(1), Wu X.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology & Psychiatry, 1438 South Grand Boulevard, Saint Louis 
University School of Medicine, Saint Louis, MO, 63104, USA. jsoltys@slu.edu.

BACKGROUND: Myasthenia gravis (MG) and animal model of experimental autoimmune
myasthenia gravis (EAMG) is the most common autoimmune disorder of neuromuscular 
transmission. The disease is caused by the breakdown of the acetylcholine
receptor (AChR) which is largely due to complement activation at the
neuromuscular junction (NMJ). Limited knowledge exists to the extent that
complement receptor 1-related gene/protein y deficiency (Crry -/-) modulates the 
adaptive immune response and EAMG outcome.
METHODS: Mouse EAMG was induced by s.c. administrations of purified acetylcholine
receptor (AChR) to Crry -/- and age- matched WT (C57BL/6) mice. Disease severity 
was assessed by clinical score assessment and muscle grip strength measurements. 
Serum complement activity was determined by hemolytic assay. ELISA was used to
detect the level of AChR specific antibodies. Splenic cells were analyzed for T
and B cells subsets distribution, release of cytokines and AChR specific recall
responses. Deposition of complement components at the NMJ was assessed by
immunofluorescence staining.
RESULTS: In comparison to WT EAMG, Crry -/- EAMG mice showed signs of augmented
muscle weakness but differences, except for one time point, were not
statistically significant. Serum complement activity was reduced in Crry -/- EAMG
mice and no substantial changes in deposition of C3, C3b/iC3b and C5b-9 (MAC) at 
the NMJ between WT EAMG and Crry -/- EAMG mice were detected. Lack of Crry
affected adaptive immune response. Crry -/- EAMG mice showed increases in the
number of AChR specific splenic T-cells secreting IFN-γ and IL-4. Production of
complement fixing antibodies (IgG2b, IgG2c) was also augmented. More Th1, Th2 and
Th17 cytokines were released into the bloodstream of Crry -/- EAMG mice.
CONCLUSIONS: Data suggest that Crry deficiency modulates the adaptive immune
response in EAMG, but its effect on disease outcome is limited. This was due to
the generally lower serum complement level caused by increased C3 turnover.
Modulation of complement activity with soluble or membrane bound regulators of
complement activity represents a potentially effective approach to modify
autoimmune processes in MG and EAMG.

PMCID: PMC3524051
PMID: 22642809  [PubMed]


1. J Neuroimmunol. 2012 Aug 15;249(1-2):1-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jneuroim.2012.04.002.
Epub 2012 May 23.

CD4 costimulation is not required in a novel LPS-enhanced model of myasthenia
gravis.

Allman W(1), Qi H, Saini SS, Li J, Tuzun E, Christadoss P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, The University of Texas Medical
Branch, 301 University Blvd., Galveston, TX 77555-1070, United States

The potential of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to induce antigen-specific B cell
responses to acetylcholine receptor (AChR) in myasthenia gravis (MG) was
evaluated in wild type (WT) and CD4-/- C57BL/6 mice. The WT mice immunized with
AChR in LPS developed an MG-like disease (LPS-EAMG) similar to that induced by
immunization with AChR in complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA-EAMG). CD4-/- mice were
resistant to CFA-EAMG but susceptible to LPS-EAMG. LPS abrogated EAMG resistance 
in CD4-/- mice by increasing high-affinity anti-AChR IgG2b in sera and enhancing 
immune complex deposition in muscle.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 22626443  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. J Neuroimmunol. 2012 Apr;245(1-2):75-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jneuroim.2012.02.010. Epub
2012 Mar 11.

3,4-Diaminopyridine improves neuromuscular transmission in a MuSK
antibody-induced mouse model of myasthenia gravis.

Mori S(1), Kishi M, Kubo S, Akiyoshi T, Yamada S, Miyazaki T, Konishi T, Maruyama
N, Shigemoto K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Gerontology,
Tokyo 173-0015, Japan.

This study investigated the effect of 3,4-diaminopyridine (3,4-DAP), a potent
potentiator of transmitter release, on neuromuscular transmission in vivo in a
mouse model of myasthenia gravis (MG) caused by antibodies against
muscle-specific kinase (MuSK; MuSK-MG) and ex vivo in diaphragm muscle from these
mice. 3,4-DAP significantly improved neuromuscular transmission, predominantly by
increasing acetylcholine (ACh) release, supporting presynaptic potentiation as an
effective treatment strategy for MuSK-MG patients who have defective transmitter 
release. In MuSK-MG, we suggest that only low-dose acetylcholinesterase (AChE)
inhibitors be used to avoid side effects, and we propose that 3,4-DAP may be
effective as a symptomatic therapy.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 22409941  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Brain. 2012 Apr;135(Pt 4):1081-101. doi: 10.1093/brain/aws025. Epub 2012 Mar 6.

Muscle-specific kinase myasthenia gravis IgG4 autoantibodies cause severe
neuromuscular junction dysfunction in mice.

Klooster R(1), Plomp JJ, Huijbers MG, Niks EH, Straasheijm KR, Detmers FJ,
Hermans PW, Sleijpen K, Verrips A, Losen M, Martinez-Martinez P, De Baets MH, van
der Maarel SM, Verschuuren JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Human Genetics, Medical Genetics Centre, Leiden University
Medical Centre, Leiden, The Netherlands.

Myasthenia gravis is a paralytic disorder with autoantibodies against
acetylcholine receptors at the neuromuscular junction. A proportion of patients
instead has antibodies against muscle-specific kinase, a protein essential for
acetylcholine receptor clustering. These are generally of the immunoglobulin-G4
subclass and correlate with disease severity, suggesting specific myasthenogenic 
activity. However, immunoglobulin-G4 subclass antibodies are generally considered
to be 'benign' and direct proof for their pathogenicity in muscle-specific kinase
myasthenia gravis (or other immunoglobulin-G4-associated disorders) is lacking.
Furthermore, the exact electrophysiological synaptic defects caused at
neuromuscular junctions by human anti-muscle-specific kinase autoantibodies are
hitherto unknown. We show that purified immunoglobulin-G4, but not
immunoglobulin-G1-3, from patients with muscle-specific kinase myasthenia gravis 
binds to mouse neuromuscular junctions in vitro, and that injection into
immunodeficient mice causes paralysis. Injected immunoglobulin-G4 caused reduced 
density and fragmented area of neuromuscular junction acetylcholine receptors.
Detailed electrophysiological synaptic analyses revealed severe reduction of
postsynaptic acetylcholine sensitivity, and exaggerated depression of presynaptic
acetylcholine release during high-rate activity, together causing the (fatigable)
muscle weakness. Intriguingly, compensatory transmitter release upregulation,
which is the normal homeostatic response in acetylcholine receptor myasthenia
gravis, was absent. This conveys extra vulnerability to neurotransmission at
muscle-specific kinase myasthenia gravis neuromuscular junctions. Thus, we
demonstrate that patient anti-muscle-specific kinase immunoglobulin-G4 is
myasthenogenic, independent of additional immune system components, and have
elucidated the underlying electrophysiological neuromuscular junction
abnormalities.

PMID: 22396395  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Exp Neurol. 2012 Apr;234(2):506-12. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2012.01.025. Epub
2012 Feb 3.

Passive and active immunization models of MuSK-Ab positive myasthenia:
electrophysiological evidence for pre and postsynaptic defects.

Viegas S(1), Jacobson L, Waters P, Cossins J, Jacob S, Leite MI, Webster R,
Vincent A.

Author information: 
(1)Weatherall Institute of Molecular Medicine and Nuffield Department of Clinical
Neurosciences, John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford OX3 9DS, UK.

Antibodies directed against the post-synaptic neuromuscular junction protein,
muscle specific kinase (MuSK) are found in a small proportion of generalized
myasthenia gravis (MuSK-MG) patients. MuSK is a receptor tyrosine kinase which is
essential for clustering of the acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) at the
neuromuscular junction, but the mechanisms by which MuSK antibodies (MuSK-Abs)
affect neuromuscular transmission are not clear. Experimental models of MuSK-MG
have been described but there have been no detailed electrophysiological studies 
and no comparisons between the MuSK-MG and the typical form with AChR-Abs
(AChR-MG). Here we studied the electrophysiology of neuromuscular transmission
after immunization against MuSK compared with immunization against AChR, and also
after passive transfer of IgG from MuSK-MG or AChR-MG patients. Overt clinical
weakness was observed in 6/10 MuSK-immunized and 3/9 AChR-immunized mice but not 
in those injected with patients' IgG. Miniature endplate potentials (MEPPS) were 
reduced in all weak mice consistent with the reduction in postsynaptic AChRs that
was found. However, whereas there was an increase in the quantal release of
acetylcholine (ACh) in the weak AChR-immunized mice, no such increase was found
in the weak MuSK-immunized mice. Similar trends were found after the passive
transfer of purified IgG antibodies from MuSK-MG or AChR-MG patients. Preliminary
results showed that MuSK expression was considerably higher at the neuromuscular 
junctions of the masseter (facial) than in the gastrocnemius (leg) with no
reduction in MuSK immunostaining at the neuromuscular junctions. Overall, these
results suggest that MuSK antibodies act in at least two ways. Firstly by
indirectly affecting MuSK's ability to maintain the high density of AChRs and
secondly by interfering with a compensatory presynaptic mechanism that regulates 
quantal release and helps to preserve neuromuscular function. These results raise
questions about how MuSK is involved in retrograde signaling, and the combination
of post-synaptic defects with lack of presynaptic compensation may begin to
explain the more severe disease in MuSK-MG patients.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 22326541  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. J Neuroimmunol. 2012 Mar;244(1-2):63-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jneuroim.2012.01.003. Epub
2012 Feb 10.

DAF/CD55 and Protectin/CD59 modulate adaptive immunity and disease outcome in
experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis.

Soltys J(1), Halperin JA, Xuebin Q.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology & Psychiatry, Saint Louis University School of
Medicine, Saint Louis, MO 63104, United States. jsoltys@slu.edu

The role of regulators of complement activity (RCA) involving CD55 and CD59 in
the pathogenesis of experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (EAMG) remains
unclear. CD55 and CD59 restrict complement activation by inhibiting C3/C5
convertases' activities and membrane attack complex formation, respectively.
Actively immunized EAMG mice deficient in either CD55 or CD59 showed significant 
differences in adaptive immune responses and worsened disease outcome associated 
with increased levels of serum cytokines, modified production of acetylcholine
receptor antibodies, and more complement deposition at the neuromuscular
junction. We conclude that modulation of complement activity by RCA represents an
alternative in controlling of autoimmune processes in EAMG.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 22325826  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. J Neurol Sci. 2012 May 15;316(1-2):150-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jns.2011.12.016. Epub
2012 Jan 16.

Neurophysiological characteristics of MuSK antibody positive myasthenia gravis
mice: focal denervation and hypersensitivity to acetylcholinesterase inhibitors.

Chroni E(1), Punga AR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, School of Medicine, University of Patras, Patras,
Greece.

Myasthenia Gravis (MG) patients with antibodies against the muscle specific
tyrosine kinase (MuSK+) typically present with focal fatigue and atrophy of the
facial and bulbar muscles, along with unbeneficial reactions upon administration 
of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (AChEIs). This study addresses the
neurophysiological characteristics in facial versus limb muscles, before and
after intraperitoneal injection of AChEIs, in mice immunized with MuSK. We
performed in-vivo neurophysiological examinations in the masseter and
gastrocnemius muscles of mice with MuSK+experimental autoimmune MG (EAMG) and in 
healthy control mice before and after administration of AChEIs. Abnormal
spontaneous activity (fibrillations) was observed in the masseter muscle of
MuSK+mice. Furthermore, 94% of MuSK-immunized mice displayed so called extra
discharges (EDs) upon administration of a therapeutic AChEI dose, in contrast to 
22% of the control mice, indicating neuromuscular hyperactivity. These findings
support functional denervation in the masseter muscle and neuromuscular
hypersensitivity already at a standard dose of AChEIs in MuSK+EAMG.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 22251934  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Muscle Nerve. 2012 Feb;45(2):209-16. doi: 10.1002/mus.22273.

Ocular and generalized myasthenia gravis induced by human acetylcholine receptor 
γ subunit immunization.

Wu X(1), Tuzun E, Li J, Xiao T, Saini SS, Qi H, Allman W, Christadoss P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Second Xiangya Hospital, Central South
University, Changsha, China.

INTRODUCTION: HLA-DQ8 transgenic mice develop ocular myasthenia gravis (oMG),
which then progresses to generalized MG (gMG) when immunized with the human
acetylcholine receptor (H-AChR) α subunit. Because the fetal AChR γ subunit is
expressed in adult extraocular muscles, we anticipated that γ subunit
immunization would generate an immune response to mouse AChR and induce MG in
mice.
RESULTS: H-AChR γ subunit immunization in HLA-DQ8 mice induced an autoimmune
response to mouse AChR and led to the destruction of AChR in the neuromuscular
junction (NMJ) by anti-AChR antibody and complement activation, and it triggered 
upregulation of AChR gene transcription.
CONCLUSION: Our findings indicate that oMG may be induced by immunity to the AChR
γ subunit.

Copyright © 2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

PMID: 22246876  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Immunopharmacol Immunotoxicol. 2012 Aug;34(4):616-26. doi:
10.3109/08923973.2011.643313. Epub 2012 Jan 2.

Differential immunotoxic effects of ethanol on murine EL-4 lymphoma and normal
lymphocytes is mediated through increased ROS production and activation of
p38MAPK.

Premachandran S(1), Khan NM, Thakur VS, Shukla J, Poduval TB.

Author information: 
(1)Immunology and Hyperthermia Section, Radiation Biology and Health Sciences
Division, Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, Trombay, Mumbai-400085, India.

Ethanol has been used to achieve thymic depletion in myasthenia gravis patients. 
Ethanol (95%) has also been used widely in the therapy of many tumors including
hepatocellular carcinoma. In light of these findings, we delineated the
differential immunotoxic behavior and mechanism of lower concentration of ethanol
towards murine EL-4 lymphoma and its normal counterpart lymphocytes. EL-4
lymphoma and normal lymphocytes were cultured with ethanol (0%-5%) for 6 h and
cytotoxicity was measured by various methods. EL-4 cells treated with ethanol
showed concentration-dependent loss of viability at 2%-5% ethanol concentration
and exhibit proliferative arrest at preG1 stage. Acridine-orange and
ethidium-bromide staining indicated that ethanol induced death in EL-4 cells, by 
induction of both apoptosis and necrosis which was further supported by findings 
of DNA-fragmentation and trypan blue dye exclusion test. However, treatment of
lymphocytes with similar concentration of ethanol did not show any
death-associated parameters. Furthermore, ethanol induced significantly higher
ROS generation in EL-4 cells as compared to lymphocytes and caused PARP cleavage 
and activation of apoptotic proteins like p53 and Bax, in EL-4 cells and not in
normal lymphocytes. In addition, ethanol exposure to EL-4 cells led to
phosphorylation of p38MAPK, and upregulation of death receptor Fas (CD95). Taken 
together, these results suggest that ethanol upto a concentration of 5% caused no
significant immunotoxicity towards normal lymphocytes and induced cell death in
EL-4 cells via phosphorylation of p38MAPK and regulation of p53 leading to
further activation of both extrinsic (Fas) and intrinsic (Bax) apoptotic markers.

PMID: 22211272  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Amino Acids. 2013 Jul;45(1):73-85. doi: 10.1007/s00726-011-1192-8. Epub 2011 Dec 
23.

Modulation of inflammatory pathways by the immune cholinergic system.

Nizri E(1), Brenner T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Surgery, Tel-Aviv Sourasky Medical Center, Tel-Aviv,
Israel.

Research done in the past years pointed to a novel function of cholinergic
transmission. It has been shown that cholinergic transmission can modulate
various aspects of the immune function, whether innate or adaptive. Cholinergic
transmission affects immune cell proliferation, cytokine production, T helper
differentiation and antigen presentation. Theses effects are mediated by
cholinergic muscarinic and nicotinic receptors and other cholinergic components
present in immune cells, such as acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and
cholineacetyltransferase. The α7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor was designated 
anti-inflammatory activity and has shown promise in pre-clinical models of
inflammatory disorders. We herein describe the various components of the immune
cholinergic system, and specifically the immune suppressive effects of α7
activation. This activation can be accomplished either by direct stimulation or
indirectly, by inhibition of AChE. Thus, the presence of the immune cholinergic
system can pave the way for novel immunomodulatory agents, or to the broadening
of use of known cholinergic agents.

PMID: 22194043  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Immunity. 2011 Dec 23;35(6):986-96. doi: 10.1016/j.immuni.2011.10.015. Epub 2011 
Dec 15.

Th17 cells induce ectopic lymphoid follicles in central nervous system tissue
inflammation.

Peters A(1), Pitcher LA, Sullivan JM, Mitsdoerffer M, Acton SE, Franz B,
Wucherpfennig K, Turley S, Carroll MC, Sobel RA, Bettelli E, Kuchroo VK.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neurologic Diseases, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

Ectopic lymphoid follicles are hallmarks of chronic autoimmune inflammatory
diseases such as multiple sclerosis (MS), rheumatoid arthritis, Sjögren's
syndrome, and myasthenia gravis. However, the effector cells and mechanisms that 
induce their development are unknown. Here we showed that in experimental
autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), the animal model of MS, Th17 cells
specifically induced ectopic lymphoid follicles in the central nervous system
(CNS). Development of ectopic lymphoid follicles was partly dependent on the
cytokine interleukin 17 (IL-17) and on the cell surface molecule Podoplanin
(Pdp), which was expressed on Th17 cells, but not on other effector T cell
subsets. Pdp was also crucial for the development of secondary lymphoid
structures: Pdp-deficient mice lacked peripheral lymph nodes and had a defect in 
forming normal lymphoid follicles and germinal centers in spleen and lymph node
remnants. Thus, Th17 cells are uniquely endowed to induce tissue inflammation,
characterized by ectopic lymphoid follicles within the target organ.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMCID: PMC3422678
PMID: 22177922  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Arch Immunol Ther Exp (Warsz). 2012 Feb;60(1):19-30. doi:
10.1007/s00005-011-0158-6. Epub 2011 Dec 8.

Acetylcholine receptor-induced experimental myasthenia gravis: what have we
learned from animal models after three decades?

Baggi F(1), Antozzi C, Toscani C, Cordiglieri C.

Author information: 
(1)Preclinical Neuroimmunology Laboratory, Neurology IV Unit, Fondazione Istituto
Neurologico "Carlo Besta", Milan, Italy. baggi@istituto-besta.it

Myasthenia gravis (MG) is an autoimmune disease caused by an immunological
response against the acetylcholine receptor (AChR) at the neuromuscular junction.
Anti-AChR antibodies induce degradation of the receptor, activation of complement
cascade and destruction of the post-synaptic membrane, resulting in a functional 
reduction of AChR availability. The pathophysiological role of autoantibodies
(auto-Abs) and T helper lymphocytes has been studied in the experimental
autoimmune MG (EAMG) models. EAMG models have been employed to investigate the
factors involved in the development of MG and to suggest new therapies aimed to
preventing or modulating the ongoing disease. EAMG can be induced in susceptible 
mouse and rat strains, which develop clinical symptoms such as muscular weakness 
and fatigability, mimicking the human disease. Two major types of EAMG can be
induced, passive and active EAMG. Passive transfer MG models, involving the
injection of auto-Abs, are helpful for studying the role of complement molecules 
and their regulatory proteins, which can prevent neuromuscular junction
degradation. Active models, induced by immunization, are employed for the
analysis of antigen-specific immune responses and their modulation in order to
improve disease progression. In this review, we will concentrate on the main
pathogenic mechanisms of MG, focusing on recent findings on EAMG experimental
models.

PMID: 22159475  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Am J Pathol. 2012 Feb;180(2):798-810. doi: 10.1016/j.ajpath.2011.10.031. Epub
2011 Dec 3.

Antibodies against muscle-specific kinase impair both presynaptic and
postsynaptic functions in a murine model of myasthenia gravis.

Mori S(1), Kubo S, Akiyoshi T, Yamada S, Miyazaki T, Hotta H, Desaki J, Kishi M, 
Konishi T, Nishino Y, Miyazawa A, Maruyama N, Shigemoto K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Gerontology,
Tokyo, Japan.

Antibodies against acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) cause pathogenicity in
myasthenia gravis (MG) patients through complement pathway-mediated destruction
of postsynaptic membranes at neuromuscular junctions (NMJs). However, antibodies 
against muscle-specific kinase (MuSK), which constitute a major subclass of
antibodies found in MG patients, do not activate the complement pathway. To
investigate the pathophysiology of MuSK-MG and establish an experimental
autoimmune MG (EAMG) model, we injected MuSK protein into mice deficient in
complement component five (C5). MuSK-injected mice simultaneously developed
severe muscle weakness, accompanied by an electromyographic pattern such as is
typically observed in MG patients. In addition, we observed morphological and
functional defects in the NMJs of EAMG mice, demonstrating that complement
activation is not necessary for the onset of MuSK-MG. Furthermore, MuSK-injected 
mice exhibited acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitor-evoked cholinergic
hypersensitivity, as is observed in MuSK-MG patients, and a decrease in both AChE
and the AChE-anchoring protein collagen Q at postsynaptic membranes. These
findings suggest that MuSK is indispensable for the maintenance of NMJ structure 
and function, and that disruption of MuSK activity by autoantibodies causes MG.
This mouse model of EAMG could be used to develop appropriate medications for the
treatment of MuSK-MG in humans.

Copyright © 2012 American Society for Investigative Pathology. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

PMID: 22142810  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. J Neuroimmunol. 2011 Dec 15;240-241:65-73. doi: 10.1016/j.jneuroim.2011.10.010.
Epub 2011 Nov 17.

GM-CSF-induced regulatory T cells selectively inhibit anti-acetylcholine
receptor-specific immune responses in experimental myasthenia gravis.

Sheng JR(1), Muthusamy T, Prabhakar BS, Meriggioli MN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and Rehabilitation, College of Medicine, University of
Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, IL-60612, United States.

We and others have demonstrated the ability of granulocyte-macrophage
colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) to suppress autoimmunity by increasing the
number of CD4(+)CD25(+) regulatory T cells (Tregs). In the current study, we have
explored the critical role of induced antigen specific Tregs in the therapeutic
effects of GM-CSF in murine experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (EAMG).
Specifically, we show that Tregs from GM-CSF treated EAMG mice
(GM-CSF/AChR-induced-Tregs) adoptively transferred into animals with EAMG
suppressed clinical disease more potently than equal numbers of Tregs from either
GM-CSF untreated EAMG mice or healthy mice treated with GM-CSF. In addition,
GM-CSF/AChR-induced-Tregs selectively suppressed antigen specific T cell
proliferation induced by AChR relative to that induced by an irrelevant self
antigen, (thyroglobulin) and failed to significantly alter T cell proliferation
in response to an exogenous antigen (ovalbumin). These results are consistent
with the hypothesized mechanism of action of GM-CSF involving the mobilization of
tolerogenic dendritic cell precursors which, upon antigen (AChR) capture,
suppress the anti-AChR immune response through the induction/expansion of
AChR-specific Tregs.

Copyright © 2011. Published by Elsevier B.V.

PMCID: PMC3234297
PMID: 22099723  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Curr Protoc Immunol. 2011 Nov;Chapter 15:Unit 15.23. doi:
10.1002/0471142735.im1523s95.

Experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis in the mouse.

Wu B(1), Goluszko E, Huda R, Tüzün E, Christadoss P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Texas Medical Branch,
Galveston, Texas, USA.

Myasthenia gravis (MG) is a T cell-dependent antibody-mediated autoimmune
neuromuscular disease. Antibodies to the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) 
destroy the AChR, thus leading to defective neuromuscular transmission of
electrical impulse and to muscle weakness. This unit is a practical guide to the 
induction and evaluation of experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (EAMG) in
the mouse, the animal model for MG. Protocols are provided for the extraction and
purification of AChR from the electric organs of Torpedo californica, or the
electric ray. The purified receptor is used as an immunogen to induce
autoimmunity to AChR, thus causing EAMG. The defect in neuromuscular transmission
can also be measured quantitatively by electromyography. In addition, EAMG is
frequently characterized by the presence of serum antibodies to AChR, which are
measured by radioimmunoassay and by a marked antibody-mediated reduction in the
number of muscle AChRs. AChR extracted from mouse muscle is used in measuring
serum antibody levels and for quantifying muscle AChR content. Another hallmark
of the disease is complement and IgG deposits located at the neuromuscular
junction, which can be visualized by immunofluorescence techniques.

PMID: 22048803  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Neurology. 2011 Nov 15;77(20):1819-26. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e318237f660. Epub
2011 Oct 19.

Anti-MuSK autoantibodies block binding of collagen Q to MuSK.

Kawakami Y(1), Ito M, Hirayama M, Sahashi K, Ohkawara B, Masuda A, Nishida H,
Mabuchi N, Engel AG, Ohno K.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neurological Diseases and Cancer, Nagoya University Graduate School
of Medicine, Nagoya, Japan.

Comment in
    Neurology. 2011 Nov 15;77(20):1783-4.

OBJECTIVE: Muscle-specific receptor tyrosine kinase (MuSK) antibody-positive
myasthenia gravis (MG) accounts for 5%-15% of autoimmune MG. MuSK mediates the
agrin-signaling pathway and also anchors the collagenic tail subunit (ColQ) of
acetylcholinesterase (AChE). The exact molecular target of MuSK-immunoglobulin G 
(IgG), however, remains elusive. As acetylcholine receptor (AChR) deficiency is
typically mild and as cholinesterase inhibitors are generally ineffective, we
asked if MuSK-IgG interferes with binding of ColQ to MuSK.
METHODS: We used 3 assays: in vitro overlay of the human ColQ-tailed AChE to
muscle sections of Colq-/- mice; in vitro plate-binding assay to quantitate
binding of MuSK to ColQ and to LRP4; and passive transfer of MuSK-IgG to mice.
RESULTS: The in vitro overlay assay revealed that MuSK-IgG blocks binding of ColQ
to the neuromuscular junction. The in vitro plate-binding assay showed that
MuSK-IgG exerts a dose-dependent block of MuSK binding to ColQ by but not to
LRP4. Passive transfer of MuSK-IgG to mice reduced the size and density of ColQ
to ∼10% of controls and had a lesser effect on the size and density of AChR and
MuSK.
CONCLUSIONS: As lack of ColQ compromises agrin-mediated AChR clustering in
Colq-/- mice, a similar mechanism may lead to AChR deficiency in MuSK-MG
patients. Our experiments also predict partial AChE deficiency in MuSK-MG
patients, but AChE is not reduced in biopsied NMJs. In humans, binding of ColQ to
MuSK may be dispensable for clustering ColQ, but is required for facilitating
AChR clustering. Further studies will be required to elucidate the basis of this 
paradox.

PMCID: PMC3233209
PMID: 22013178  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2011 Sep;1233:26-33. doi: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2011.06123.x.

Factors contributing to failure of neuromuscular transmission in myasthenia
gravis and the special case of the extraocular muscles.

Serra A(1), Ruff R, Kaminski H, Leigh RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Neurology Service, Veterans Affairs Medical Center and Case Medical Center,
Cleveland, Ohio, USA. Alessandro.Serra@UHhospitals.org

Acetylcholine receptors (AchRs) and Na(+) channels (NaChs) are concentrated on
neuromuscular junction (NMJ) postsynaptic folds; both are depleted in myasthenia 
gravis (MG), reducing the safety factor (SF) for neuromuscular transmission,
especially in extraocular muscles (EOM). Studies of human myasthenic nerve-muscle
preparations indicate that loss of endplate AChRs accounts for 59%, and NaChs for
40%, of SF reduction. Rodent models of MG indicate that NaChs and AChRs losses
are due to complement-mediated destruction of postsynaptic folding. Saccades in
MG show stereotyped, conjugate initial components, similar to normal but
different from early disconjugacy with ocular nerve palsies. Loss of AChRs,
NaChs, and postsynaptic folding all contribute to SF reduction in MG. EOM seem
more susceptible to MG because of poor postsynaptic folding, lower baseline SF,
and lower levels of intrinsic complement inhibitors. Initial conjugacy of
saccades in MG reflects selective sparing of neuromuscular transmission of fast, 
pale global fibers, which have better developed postsynaptic folding.

© 2011 New York Academy of Sciences.

PMID: 21950972  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]

